



Industrial Strategy
Building a Britain fit for the future

Industrial Strategy White Paper








Contents










































2















Foreword from the Prime Minister	04
Foreword from the Secretary of State	06
Introduction	08
Grand Challenges	30
Ideas	56
People	92
Infrastructure	126
Business Environment	162
Places	214
Conclusion: Britain and the world	240





















Foreword from the Prime Minister


Over the last seven years, we have made huge progress in restoring our public finances and rescuing our economy from the brink of bankruptcy. Thanks to the sacrifices of the British people, the deficit is now down two-thirds since 2010, the unemployment rate is at its lowest in over 40 years and we have had 19 continuous quarters of economic growth.

We should take enormous pride in these achievements and the difference they are making for many families and businesses in our country. But at the same time, we must also recognise there are some communities which have struggled to keep pace with changes in the global economy and as a result not fully shared in the prosperity that growth has delivered.
For me it is not enough to see growth in the national economy if your
local economy is shrinking. It is not ambitious enough to have record jobs growth, unless those jobs are secure and delivering real growth in wages. And we are not fulfilling Britain’s potential if, despite having scientists and universities renowned the world over, we cannot turn their ideas into the products and services on which the industries of the future will be built.
 That is why one of my first actions as Prime Minister was to begin the development of a modern Industrial
Strategy that would help businesses to create high quality, well paid jobs right across the country. This document is
a vital step in delivering that vision. More than just a set of announcements, it heralds a new approach to how government and business can work together to shape a stronger, fairer economy. At its heart it epitomises my belief in a strong and strategic state that intervenes decisively wherever it can make a difference. It is rooted in the conviction that a successful free- market economy must be built on firm foundations: the skills of its workers, the quality of the infrastructure, and a fair and predictable business environment. And where these are missing it takes energy and partnership between government and the private sector to address the problems.









4










That is exactly what this Industrial Strategy aims to do. It will help young people develop the skills they need to do the high-paid, high-skilled jobs of the future. It backs our country for the long- term: creating the conditions where successful businesses can emerge and grow, and helping them to invest in the future of our nation. And it identifies the industries that are of strategic value to our economy and works to create
a partnership between government and industry to nurture them. In doing so, it will help propel Britain to global leadership of the industries of the future - from artificial intelligence
and big data to clean energy and self-driving vehicles.
Two centuries ago it was our industrial revolution which led the world. Thirty years ago, it was our bold, pro-market reforms which set an example for others to follow. Today, our ambition is just as high. As we leave the European Union and forge a new path for ourselves, so we will build a Britain fit for the future and fulfil the mission that I set on my first day as Prime Minister: to make our United Kingdom a country that truly works for everyone.
 


The Prime Minister












5




Foreword from
the Secretary of State

We are at one of the most important, exciting and challenging times in the history of global enterprise.

Powered by new technologies, the way we live our lives as workers, citizens and consumers is being transformed across the world.
Britain is extraordinarily well-placed to benefit from this new industrial
revolution. We are an open enterprising economy, built on invention, innovation and competition. Our universities and research institutions are among the best in the world. We have a deserved reputation for being a dependable
and confident place to do business, with high standards, respected institutions, and the reliable rule of law. We have achieved near historic levels of employment. We are a crossing point for the world because of our geographic position, the English
language, our strong ties, our openness to ideas and our vibrant culture. We have many industries - from financial services to advanced manufacturing, from the life sciences to the creative industries – which are world leading.
To benefit from the opportunities before us, we need to prepare to seize them. This would be needed at any time, and Britain’s decision to leave the European Union makes it even more important.
 More decisions about our economic future will be in our own hands,
and it is vital that we take them.
In our Industrial Strategy we set out how we will build on our strengths, extend them into the future and capitalise on the opportunities before us.
A serious strategy must also address the weaknesses that keep us from achieving our full potential.
For all the excellence of our world- beating companies, the high calibre of our workforce and the prosperity of many areas, we have businesses, people and places whose level of productivity is well below what
can be achieved.
By improving productivity while keeping employment high, we can earn more – raising living standards, providing funds to support our public services and improving the quality of life for all our citizens.
So this Industrial Strategy deliberately strengthens the five foundations
of productivity: ideas, people, infrastructure, business environment and places.





6










As well as setting a path to improved productivity, our Industrial Strategy sets out four areas
where Britain can lead the global technological revolution.
These four Grand Challenges –
in artificial intelligence and big data; clean growth; the future of mobility; and meeting the needs of an ageing society – have been identified on the advice of the our leading scientists and technologists. They will be supported by investment from the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund and matched by commercial investment.
Our Industrial Strategy will inform decisions now, and in the future. Other countries have benefited from establishing policies and institutions
That partnership with innovators, inventors, job creators, local leaders, the devolved administrations, workers and consumers will continue as we work together to make our country  fit for the future.
7
 


Rt Hon Greg Clark MP
Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy



Industrial Strategy White Paper



Introduction














































8

Nam quiaeperibus eictur adic te proratam, aut dicium quo quam aceaqui blatemo luptaepudam.
Ide inte pererum arum nihitat
as inctate nim harum et duciis ad ut ariberibust, sequunt od eium quibus, tentus
et unt ommolor ecaero ipsam.
Tem veligenis ullorer rorition enis eum quiae posam, sin
ratquissima volecer sperumquam que erum























9










Industrial Strategy White Paper

Overview: We will create an economy that boosts productivity and earning power throughout the UK
Ideas
the world’s most innovative economy
People
good jobs and greater earning power for all
5
foundations of
productivity
Infrastructure
a major upgrade to the UK’s infrastructure
Business environment
the best place to start and grow a business
Places
prosperous communities across the UK



We will set Grand Challenges to put the United Kingdom at the forefront of the industries of the future:


AI & Data Economy
We will put the UK at the forefront of the artificial intelligence and data revolution
 Clean Growth
We will maximise the advantages for UK industry from the global shift to clean growth



Future of Mobility
We will become a world
leader in the way people, goods and services move
10
 Ageing Society
We will harness the power of innovation to help meet the needs of an ageing society

Key policies include:



Ideas
` Raise total research and development (R&D) investment to 2.4 per cent of GDP by 2027
` Increase the rate of R&D tax credit to 12 per cent
` Invest £725m in new Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund programmes to capture the value of innovation
People
` Establish a technical education system that rivals the best in the world to stand alongside our world-class higher education system
` Invest an additional £406m in maths, digital and technical education, helping to address the shortage of science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) skills
` Create a new National Retraining Scheme that supports people to re-skill, beginning with a £64m investment for digital and construction training
Infrastructure
` Increase the National Productivity Investment Fund to £31bn, supporting investments in transport, housing and digital infrastructure
` Support electric vehicles through
£400m charging infrastructure investment and an extra £100m to extend the plug-in car grant
` Boost our digital infrastructure with over £1bn of public investment, including £176m for 5G and £200m for local areas to encourage roll out of full-fibre networks
 
Business Environment
` Launch and roll-out Sector Deals – partnerships between government and industry aiming to increase sector productivity. The first Sector Deals are in life sciences, construction, artificial intelligence and the automotive sector
` Drive over £20bn of investment in innovative and high potential businesses, including through
establishing a new £2.5bn Investment Fund, incubated in the British Business Bank
` Launch a review of the actions that could be most effective in improving the productivity and growth of small and medium-sized businesses, including how to address what has been called the ‘long tail’ of lower productivity firms
Places
` Agree Local Industrial Strategies that build on local strengths and deliver on economic opportunities
` Create a new Transforming Cities fund that will provide £1.7bn for intra-city transport. This will fund projects that drive productivity by improving connections within
city regions
` Provide £42m to pilot a Teacher Development Premium. This will test the impact of a £1000 budget for high-quality professional development for teachers working in areas that have fallen behind


We will ensure our Industrial Strategy will endure by creating an independent Industrial Strategy Council that will assess our progress and make recommendations to the government.

11






























Technological innovations are transforming how we live and work

The United Kingdom is a successful, competitive, open economy.

We have many strengths on which we can build, and some weaknesses we need to address. As we leave the European Union we need to raise our game at home and on the world
stage. This can be done if we seize the opportunities of the years ahead – and it is essential if the British people are to enjoy prosperous lives with fulfilling work and high quality public services.
At the same time, the world is changing in fundamental ways. Technological innovations are transforming how we live and work. The proportion of older
 people in our society is growing. The way we generate and use energy is changing rapidly.
The Industrial Strategy sets out how we are building a Britain fit for the future – how we will help businesses create better, higher-paying jobs in every part of the United Kingdom with investment in the skills, industries and infrastructure of the future. It ensures that our country and its citizens
can embrace and benefit from the opportunity of technological change.

Industrial Strategy White Paper




12



Our vision is for:
` the world’s most innovative economy
` good jobs and greater earning power for all
` a major upgrade to the UK’s infrastructure
` the best place to start and grow a business
` prosperous communities across the UK
To achieve this, we must ensure every part of our country realises its full potential. We are taking action now, including making the biggest ever increase in public investment in
research and development, establishing a new fund to drive productivity by improving connections within city regions, and agreeing Sector Deals which will drive transformation in investment and productivity across
the economy.
This Industrial Strategy is for the long term. It provides a policy framework against which major private and public sector investment decisions can be made with confidence. It is a strategy that is being implemented with, not just for, British enterprise – with the full involvement of innovators, investors, job creators, workers and consumers in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
 It is also a strategy that recognises and respects the devolution settlements of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. With many of the policies that can drive productivity being devolved, it
is a strategy that necessarily brings our work together with that of the devolved administrations as we work in partnership to get the best possible outcome for every part of the UK.
The strategy set out in this paper is the work of many people, businesses, local leaders and institutions. It builds on nearly 2,000 formal responses to the public consultation on our Green Paper, Building our Industrial Strategy1, from all types of organisation, sectors of the economy, groups of businesses and individuals – and many thousands of contributions through our programme of engagement throughout the UK over the last 10 months.











13




Our approach

Our consultation reinforced the importance of five foundations of productivity – the essential attributes of every successful economy.

These are Ideas, People, Infrastructure, Business Environment and Places. Our focus on them responds to the detailed feedback to the Green Paper.
Our five foundations align to our vision for a transformed economy – a transformation that is already taking place and will accelerate over the course of the coming decades:
Ideas
the world’s most innovative economy
People
good jobs and greater earning power for all
Infrastructure
a major upgrade to the UK’s infrastructure
Business Environment the best place to start and grow a business
Places
prosperous communities across the UK
Our five foundations
 Through this process we have also identified Grand Challenges which we will set for the UK government and wider economy. These are in response to global forces that will shape our rapidly changing future, and which the UK must embrace to ensure we harness all the opportunities they present. The Grand Challenges commit to:
` put the UK at the forefront of the artificial intelligence and data revolution;
` maximise the advantages for UK industry of the global shift to clean growth;
` become a world leader in shaping the future of mobility; and
` harness the power of innovation to help meet the needs of an ageing society.
Our foundations and Grand Challenges are set out in the sections that follow. This strategy also refers to a number of policies that will be added to over time to support the foundations and drive the UK’s transformation.











14








We will:
Ideas
` raise total research and development (R&D) investment to 2.4 per cent of GDP by 2027;
` increase the rate of R&D tax credit to 12 per cent;
` invest £725m in new Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund programmes to capture the value of innovation;
People
` establish a technical education system that rivals the best in the world to  stand alongside our world-class higher education system;
` invest an additional £406m in maths, digital and technical education, helping to address the shortage of science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) skills;
` create a new National Retraining Scheme that supports people
to re-skill, beginning with a
£64m investment for digital and construction training;
Infrastructure
` increase the National Productivity Investment Fund to £31bn, supporting investments in transport, housing and digital infrastructure;
 
` support electric vehicles through
£400m charging infrastructure investment and an extra £100m to extend the plug-in car grant;
` boost our digital infrastructure with over £1bn of public investment, including £176m for 5G and £200m for local areas to encourage roll out of full-fibre networks;
Business Environment
` launch and roll-out Sector Deals – partnerships between government and industry aiming to increase sector productivity. The first Sector Deals are in life sciences, construction, artificial intelligence and the automotive sector;
` drive over £20bn of investment in innovative and high potential businesses, including through
establishing a new £2.5bn Investment Fund, incubated in the British Business Bank;
` launch a review of the actions that could be most effective in improving the productivity and growth of  small and medium-sized businesses, including how to address what has been called the ‘long tail’ of lower productivity firms;







15



Places
` agree Local Industrial Strategies that build on local strengths and deliver on economic opportunities;
` create a new Transforming Cities fund that will provide £1.7bn for intra-city transport. This will fund projects
that drive productivity by improving connections within city regions; and
` provide £42m to pilot a Teacher Development Premium. This will test the impact of a £1000 budget for high-quality professional development for teachers working in areas that have fallen behind.
 
These policies, alongside the many others set out in this document, are the first strategic actions of a long-term approach to transform our levels of productivity and our earning power
as a nation, as businesses, as places, and as individuals. We are ready to be judged on our performance in implementing them.

16
We will agree Local Industrial Strategies that identify and build on strengths across the country


Building on our strengths

The UK is a fundamentally strong economy, with widely admired institutions and some of the world’s leading businesses and universities.

We have some of the highest employment rates in Europe2. We are a location of choice for businesses at the cutting edge of innovation and technology, attracting more overseas investment in R&D than many major countries, including Germany,
France and China3.
 Our flexible labour market, high levels of employment and competitive environment – with high standards and a dependable rule of law – make us a great place to do business.

USA
UK




























$400

$300

$200

$100

$0
2007
2016
Inward foreign direct investment
UK inward investment compared to other countries
USD billions
China Hong Kong
Netherlands Singapore
British Virgin Islands Brazil
Australia Cayman Islands India
Russian Federation Canada
Belgium
Italy




17



We are ranked seventh globally in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index4. Our strengths are many and diverse: from our scientific and financial prowess to the vitality of our cultural and artistic life.
We have many creative and innovative businesses and we are strong in
key sectors, from automotive and aerospace to food and drink and creative industries. We have millions of jobs in financial, professional and business services, which are also our country’s biggest exporters5. We are at the cutting edge of technologies such as satellites and synthetic biology. Countries are keen to invest in our education and learn from our
discoveries in health care. The UK ranks in the top five in the Global Innovation Index6. We need to make the most of these strengths so that we can be at the forefront of emerging technologies and industries in the years ahead.
 The UK also contains some of the world’s most attractive places to live, work, invest and be entertained.
London is a world-leading hub for financial services, creative industries, tech businesses and more; a global city which continues to be a magnet for international businesses and talent. In recent years the UK’s ‘Core Cities’, including Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow7, have seen their economies transformed, while many smaller cities and towns such as Milton Keynes, Oxford and Cambridge have been hotspots for job creation. We must promote growth through fostering clusters and connectivity across cities, towns and surrounding areas.

























18


Addressing our weaknesses

For all these strengths, we have an urgent need to improve. In recent decades we have not made the most of our export potential, invested too little, and have not nurtured some of the skills we need.

Too many of the UK’s cities outside the capital underperform against the national average. We cannot
tackle our problems unless we openly acknowledge them and accept we
all share the responsibility for addressing them.
Our analysis and the responses to our Green Paper point to some important
 weaknesses in the UK economy that we are determined, unflinchingly,
to correct.
In particular, Britain’s  productivity has long lagged behind that of our competitors8. At a time of astonishing
technological advance, output per hour worked in the British economy has been weak since the financial crisis9.



								1975	1980	1985	1990	1995	2000	2005	2010	2015
Output per hour
Hourly earnings
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
Hourly earnings and output per hour, index: 1993=100
Rising wages depend on growing productivity

Source: Data based on analysis of ONS national accounts and ASHE data (courtesy of Professor Paul Gregg, the University of Bath). *Hourly earnings is defined as mean compensation per employee hour.



19



We are proud of our flexible labour market that has delivered jobs for millions and we have achieved near record employment rates10, but this must now be accompanied by the sustained higher productivity that is the essential requirement for higher wages. Unless we improve productivity while holding on to high employment, we cannot raise living standards and quality of life for all our citizens.
Our relatively weak productivity performance is, to a significant degree, a problem of composition:

Taking action now
 we have some of the most productive businesses, people and places in
the world but also a ‘long tail’ of underperformance. Britain’s top businesses are among the most admired in the world, but if the long tail of lower productivity persists,
it will hold back UK growth, wages and living standards11.
By addressing the disparities we can improve our overall productivity and earning power.




These are challenges that have been recognised by previous governments - we can learn from their successes as well as try to avoid their mistakes.

We successfully rebuilt our automotive industry by deliberately attracting investment from abroad, notably from Japan and more recently from India and continental Europe.
The initiatives of previous governments such as the advanced manufacturing strategies, the Eight Great Technologies, and the Catapult network have all contributed to our international reputation. These are strengths we
can draw on and they present further opportunities to improve productivity and create good new jobs. The very
 speed of technological change and the convergence of technologies present enormous opportunities. We are a nimble economy and we can move quickly to take advantage of innovations. We also have smart
consumers who reward entrepreneurs developing new products and services. We know that the earliest adopters of new technologies are able to reap the greatest rewards in terms of additional jobs and increased revenue.










20

























Germany France
US
Italy
UK
Canada Japan

40	50	60	70	80	90	100	110	120	130	140
GDP per hour worked, 2016, index: UK=100
UK productivity relative to other G7 countries
Country




The role of government

We have learned from previous attempts at industrial strategy – what has worked, and what has not.

It is important to have a clear understanding of what a government can and cannot do. We believe
in the power of the competitive market - competition, open financial markets, and the profit motive are the foundations of the success of the UK. Indeed the best way to improve productivity is to increase exposure to competition.
 But governments have a responsibility that extends beyond promoting competition. We have to work systematically through the factors responsible for higher productivity and earning power – the five foundations of Ideas, People, Infrastructure, Business Environment and Places that are central to this White Paper.






21



Governments in successful economies have recognised their strategic
power and leadership role, allowing them to coordinate and convene efforts to develop and disseminate new technologies and industries.
Individuals, businesses and researchers are motivated by ambitious missions
– global and national challenges that need to be tackled by breaking down traditional barriers and finding new ways of doing things. From sequencing the human genome and tackling Aids to hosting the 2012 Olympics, we have seen successive governments identify ambitious missions that drive new endeavours.
Governments can make long-term investment that no single commercial
 or academic player can take alone. The modern nation state is the most powerful means we have of pooling risk. We are willing to take these risks, which means accepting not all will work out successfully. An industrial strategy that avoids risk is no industrial strategy at all.
We have studied previous attempts at industrial strategy, which have had
successes as well as failures. One lesson is that governments cannot do this
on their own, instructing and planning but never listening or consulting. So our Industrial Strategy is a partnership with businesses, workers, universities and colleges, local government and the devolved administrations where we work together to achieve our goals.

22

From sequencing the human genome to hosting the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, we have seen successive governments identify ambitious missions that drive new endeavours


Grand Challenges

It is not enough just to look at the economy we have. We must make preparations for the economy we need to become.

We need to be acutely aware and take advantage of the world-changing trends which will shape Britain in the decades ahead. This is where the
government must provide the strategic leadership set out above to support the development of new technologies and position the UK at the forefront of the industries of the future.
In this Industrial Strategy we propose a number of Grand Challenges. These are developments in technology that are set to transform industries and societies
 around the world, and in which the UK – if we muster our forces across sectors – has the opportunity to play a leading global role.
These Grand Challenges are an invitation to business, academia and civil society to work together to
innovate and develop new technologies and industries in areas of strategic importance to our country. We set them out in more detail in the next chapter.








Following extensive consultation during the consultation for our Green Paper, our four Grand Challenges will be:
putting the UK at the forefront		being a world leader in shaping of the artificial intelligence	  the future of mobility; and
and data revolution;	harnessing the power
maximising the advantages	of innovation to help meet the      for UK industry from the	needs of an ageing society.
global shift to clean growth;










23


Global Britain

The decision to leave the European Union was not a decision to retreat from the world.

In fact we need to embrace it – to trade more not less. We must remain an open, liberal market economy. There are opportunities to be gained upon leaving the EU. The opportunity to become more protectionist is not one of them.
Britain’s future has to be one of free trade with the whole world, including with the rest of Europe.
The EU accounts for the largest proportion of UK trade12. The size and proximity of the EU single market and our close connections with it mean the EU will always be a major trading partner.
 The government believes it is overwhelmingly in our mutual interest to agree a comprehensive and ambitious UK-EU economic partnership that enables the most free and frictionless trade possible with minimal disruption to business. We should be optimistic and ambitious about what we can achieve, as we share the same beliefs in free trade, rigorous and fair competition, strong consumer rights and high standards.
There will, inevitably, be uncertainty while we determine the precise nature of our future trading arrangement with

24
Britain’s future has to be one of free trade






the EU. To minimise this, we are seeking to agree an implementation period, of around two years, to allow business time to adapt to the new arrangements. This will ensure that no one has to go through two sets of changes, and will allow businesses to make decisions once there is greater certainty about the final outcome.
Our Industrial Strategy is designed to place us at the forefront in finding solutions to both UK and global emerging trends and challenges. As set out in our paper Preparing for Our Future Trade Policy13, we will reach out to old friends and new
allies in expanding access to markets, supporting our businesses to export, and welcoming investment and collaboration from emerging and established partners from across the globe. The International Monetary Fund projects that above 80 per cent of world growth is likely to come from outside the EU in the near future14; we need to be ready for the opportunities such growth will bring. We are in discussions with a number of countries about future options, including full Free Trade Agreements. But Free Trade Agreements are not the only tools
at our disposal.
 We aim to put in place mechanisms
to improve trading relations and remove barriers affecting UK businesses, and we will work closely with the devolved administrations as we forge new and deeper trade relationships around
the world.
Our Industrial Strategy will be flexible to take account of developments in negotiations between the UK and the EU or changes in the global economy. While our Industrial Strategy will adapt, we will always be consistent in maintaining the principles of an open economy and fair competition that creates the conditions for businesses to thrive.












25































Wales’s Sêr Cymru programme is designed to attract the highest calibre candidates to work in research groups in Welsh universities, such as Cardiff

The truly generational challenges and opportunities to which our Industrial Strategy responds apply throughout the UK.

In addressing these issues we recognise and respect the devolution settlement and the empowerment it has offered the people of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. There are important aspects of the five foundations of Ideas, People, Infrastructure, Business Environment, and Places that are associated with policies that are devolved, and we are committed to working in partnership across all four nations to reach the best possible outcome for every part of the UK.
 Our Union offers a unique opportunity. The UK government and the devolved administrations can each learn from each other in areas of common interest. For example, Scotland has made great strides in energy efficiency and has
one of the most effective systems for translating advances in life sciences into improved patient care. Wales’s Sêr Cymru programme is attracting leading scientific talent matched to its innovation strengths. Northern Ireland
is fostering a burgeoning cybersecurity business and research community.

Industrial Strategy White Paper



26



Devolution has never meant that the UK government does not exist to serve the people and the economies of the devolved nations. This is exemplified
in the funding we provide throughout the UK to support innovation excellence, and next generation digital infrastructure to connect urban and rural communities, and in the promotion of our national strengths as part of the GREAT campaign.
We also know that it is collaboration between our governments that results in some of the most powerful actions taken within the devolved nations. The six City Deals agreed in Scotland and Wales are testament to the impact that partnerships within the devolved nations can achieve. These deals
have yielded ambitious investments driven by priorities identified by communities themselves, with a £1.6bn UK government investment bringing forward more than £3bn in funding from other partners. And we remain committed to further ambitious City and Growth Deals across Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland.
The Scottish Government and the previous Northern Ireland Executive have also recently published industrial and economic strategies and the Welsh Government is to do the same in the coming weeks.
 These publications reflect ambitious thinking for each economy and identify priorities that align fundamentally with the five foundations of this Industrial Strategy, whether in Scotland’s focus on innovation and entrepreneurship
or Northern Ireland’s emphasis on inclusive growth.
In our Green Paper we committed to working with the devolved
administrations as part of ministerial forums. This joint working has proven valuable, and as we implement our long-term strategy we will recommit to that partnership, seeking to tackle our shared opportunities with a focus on: addressing our shared Grand Challenges; making Sector Deals work for businesses across the UK; ensuring that our institutions collaborate for
maximum impact; and working together on priorities for places.













27

Industrial Strategy White Paper

A strategy for the long term, with benefits now

The responses to the consultation showed us that people and business want confidence that our Industrial Strategy will endure
– that it is a framework they can use for decision making and that it can be expected to last.

The best way to secure this is for the strategy to command the widest possible support. We must earn this
through the quality of the decisions we take and by sharing the evidence on which they are based. Yet commitment must not mean inflexibility – we need systems that adjust to new evidence and new challenges.
One key to this is data. Governments must practise what they preach about the opportunities of the data revolution.
That means being innovative in how we collect and analyse economic data.
 To support evaluation and further understanding of the economy, we aim to make the UK the best understood major economy. We will be developing a joint programme of work with the
Office for National Statistics, academics and other stakeholders that will identify the gaps in our evidence base. The UK government also stands ready to work with the devolved administrations, where appropriate, to ensure the strongest possible data is held and used across the UK; in particular as we continue to transfer powers from the

28







UK to the Scottish Parliament in line with the Scotland Act 2016. We want to make more micro-level data available so people can study and understand our economy. This will enable us to improve significantly how we identify strengths and weaknesses in specific parts of the country. It will provide a shared evidence base on which we
can build our Industrial Strategy.
We must have the right reporting mechanisms in place to ensure we achieve our ambitions. The Economy and Industrial Strategy Cabinet Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister, will remain responsible for our strategic vision and for driving delivery across government.
We will create an independent Industrial Strategy Council that will develop measures to assess and evaluate
our Industrial Strategy and make recommendations to the government. The Council will have access to relevant government data and will be funded
to commission specific evaluation projects as appropriate. It will be drawn from leading business men and women, investors, economists and academics from across the UK.
 
The real test of a successful strategy is the consequences it has for the lives of our fellow citizens. That must mean more good jobs and better pay. We are committed to high quality jobs for all UK citizens: that
is why we will be responding to and building on the recommendations of the Matthew Taylor Review to ensure that employment rights
are protected and workers can benefit from new technology.
By addressing these challenges we will be able to achieve the central objective of our Industrial Strategy – to improve living standards and economic growth across the country. This strategy is
our long-term plan to ensure that people in all parts of the UK are able to lead fulfilling and prosperous lives, and that we can all make the most
of the opportunities that lie ahead.













29

Industrial Strategy White Paper




Grand Challenges










































30

The fourth industrial revolution is of a scale, speed and complexity that is unprecedented












































31

Industrial Strategy White Paper
Grand Challenges

We will set Grand Challenges to put the United Kingdom at the forefront of the industries of the future.

The world is undergoing a technological revolution. Artificial intelligence (AI)
will transform the way we live and work, from the way we diagnose and treat cancer to the security of online transactions. This fourth industrial revolution is of a scale, speed and complexity that is unprecedented. The first industrial revolution mechanised production using water and steam power; the second created mass production using electric power; the third automated production using electronics and information technology. This fourth revolution is characterised by a fusion of technologies that is blurring the lines between the physical, digital and biological worlds15. It will disrupt nearly every sector in every country, creating new opportunities and challenges for people, places and businesses to which we must respond.
This is not the only seismic global change to which the UK needs to respond.
We owe it to ourselves and future generations to lower carbon emissions and move towards cleaner growth; we are facing a fundamental demographic shift as our population ages; and we are on the cusp of a profound shift in how we move people, goods and services around our towns, cities and countryside.
We need to make the most of the global market opportunities these changes
 present. We must also embrace the technological advances that improve productivity across many sectors, as well as the quality of our everyday lives.
A truly strategic government must do more than just fix the foundations: it must also plan for a rapidly changing future, look to shape new markets and industries, and build the UK’s competitive advantage. The public and private
sector must work with universities, researches and civil society to put the UK at the forefront of these revolutions, breaking down conventional barriers within and between business sectors and academic disciplines. This is what the Grand Challenges will achieve.
History shows governments around the world have taken advantage of global challenges. In the 1970s, the UK government was instrumental in developing the North Sea oil and gas industry. More recently, thanks to
tailored public support, the UK has built the largest off-shore wind capacity of any country16 and developed world class gene sequencing technologies.
Overseas, Germany’s Industrie 4.017 is an example of a government helping prepare the country to take advantage of major trends, while in the United States the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and other




32

public research institutions have played a significant role in developing the technologies behind the internet and smartphone, spurring the growth of entire new markets. Other countries are already looking to capitalise upon the fourth industrial revolution.
Japan, for example, has deliberate strategies to prepare for and to embrace these transformational changes in technology.
The ability to meet our Grand Challenges rests on broad capabilities. The
DARPA programme has been effective because it is part of a much wider research and development (R&D) effort.
Our capacity to act nimbly and effectively depends on maintaining capacities across a wide range of
technologies and disciplines.
We can engage now with the challenge of AI because of previous investments in high performance computing.
Similarly, we can rise to the challenge of an ageing society because we have already invested in resources such as the UK Biobank, which tracks the health information of 500,000 volunteers18, and we have a lead in understanding the interaction between genes and environment.
 We must continue to support a broad range of key capabilities and emerging technologies.
‘A truly strategic government must do more than just fix the foundations: it must also plan for a rapidly changing future.’
as a partnership between businesses, scientists, investors, educators and policy makers to take
full advantage of the transformational potential of these trends to improve
people’s lives, their work and the nation’s productivity.
This partnership must be
UK-wide, embracing our four nations. The UK government needs to work in collaboration with the governments and businesses of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Just as we committed in the Green Paper to holding ministerial forums with each devolved administration, we will work together to rise to each of
the Grand Challenges.





33































We will build on our strengths, including in cybersecurity machine learning, microelectronics design and composite compound chip technology



We have taken evidence from our Green Paper consultation, and worked with scientific leaders – the Government Office for Science, UK Research and Innovation (the Research Councils and Innovate UK), the Council for Science and Technology and the national academies – to identify four Grand Challenges. We will:
` put the UK at the forefront of the artificial intelligence and data revolution;
` maximise the advantages for UK industry from the global shift to clean growth;
` become a world leader in shaping the future of mobility; and
 ` harness the power of innovation to help meet the needs of an ageing society.
We must not expect that every individual action will bring guaranteed or immediate success. Through inviting competing proposals and ideas, the government will identify, support and fund a range of promising projects.
We must not let a fear of failure make us unimaginative or risk averse. The government must be willing to back
a broad portfolio of risky initiatives rather than be constrained by the possibility of individual failures.
To respond to the Grand Challenges, business, academia, civil society and

Industrial Strategy White Paper

34

the government must work together, bringing their expertise and entrepreneurial spirit, to drive us all towards success. By setting out strategic visions and a positive role for government we hope to attract the engagement of some of
the brightest minds from across the private and public sectors. For each Grand Challenge, we will ask leading figures from industry and academia to act as expert advisors, led by a ‘Business Champion’. Working alongside ministers, these figures will be responsible for engaging a diverse range of industry voices and raising the profile of the challenge. They will advise on how to make the most of the global opportunity it presents and review how we can work together to respond to it – such as improving supply and increasing demand
in nascent markets, and ensuring that innovations can diffuse and scale. We will look to appoint Business Champions and external advisers in early 2018.
We will ensure that the government makes the most of all its policy levers to achieve success. Levers include regulations, funding and Sector Deals.
 We will also direct the government’s convening power, promote exports and inward investments, and build consumer trust in new technologies. Where appropriate, teams will develop ‘missions’ to tackle the Grand Challenges. They involve tackling specific problems, such as reducing
‘Business, academia, civil society and the government must engage together, bringing their expertise and entrepreneurial spirit, to drive us all towards success.’
Progress on each Grand Challenge will be regularly reviewed to ensure that policies are having the desired impact, we are focusing on the correct issues, and we are
aware of any changes in the UK’s advantage over other countries.
In the next section we set out some early priorities for each of the four Grand Challenges. These will be developed in more detail with the Grand Challenge teams over the coming months including setting
missions where appropriate.





35































SecondHands is a research project led by Ocado Technology that aims to design a collaborative robot that can offer help to maintenance technicians working in Ocado’s highly automated grocery warehouses

We will put the UK at the forefront of the AI and data revolution.

Artificial intelligence and machine learning are general purpose technologies already starting to transform the global economy. They can be seen as new industries in their own right, but they are also transforming business models across many sectors as they deploy vast datasets to identify better ways of doing complex tasks – from helping doctors diagnose medical conditions more effectively to allowing people to communicate across the globe using instantaneous speech recognition and translation software.
 Embedding AI across the UK will create thousands of good quality jobs and drive economic growth. A recent study found digital technologies including AI created a net total of 80,000 new jobs annually across a population similar to the UK20. By one estimate, AI could add
£232bn to the UK economy by 203021.
We start from a position of strength.
The UK is already a world leader in AI, with the building blocks to make significant advances. We have some of the best research institutions in the world and

Industrial Strategy White Paper




36

globally-recognised capability in AI-related disciplines, including maths, computer science, ethics and linguistics. We have substantial datasets in public institutions where
AI can be explored safely and securely. We have great strengths in the underpinning technologies, from ARM’s microchips
to the microcomputers of Raspberry Pi. UK
innovators push boundaries in robotics and the
The AI and data-driven economy
 As with previous revolutionary technologies, these changes cannot
‘Embedding AI across the UK will create  thousands of good quality jobs and drive economic growth. AI could add £232bn to the economy by 2030.’
maximising the opportunities created by AI and advanced data technologies, and responding to the potential impacts on society. It
is a call for businesses, research institutions and the government to work together throughout the UK to invest in these technologies, encourage their adoption and set standards in secure, trusted use of data.






Artificial intelligence: technologies with the ability to perform tasks that would otherwise require human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, and language translation
Machine learning: a type of AI that allows computers to learn rapidly from large datasets without being explicitly programmed
Data-driven economy: a digitally connected economy that realises significant value from connected, large- scale data that can be rapidly analysed by technology to generate insights and innovation



37


Global venture capital investment in artificial intelligence
Cumulative average growth rate (CAGR), 2010-2016


£2.5


£2.0	57% CAGR


£1.5


£1.0


£0.5


£0.0


2010	2011	2012	2013	2014
2015
2016

GBP billions
Growth is cumulative average growth rate 2010 to 2016


We must ensure that Britain is among the first countries to ensure that everyone benefits from this revolution.
An early response to this challenge is the Artificial Intelligence Sector Deal, responding to the review by Professor Dame Wendy Hall and Jérôme Pesenti, Growing the AI Industry in the UK22.
In consultation with a range of people with expertise in this area, we have identified four priorities for this Grand Challenge:
We will make the UK a global centre for artificial intelligence and data-driven innovation
We will build on our world-class research by working with industry
 to develop innovative uses of AI and advanced analytic technologies through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund*. For example, through the Industrial Strategy ‘Next generation of services’ project we will invest in developing applications of AI and data-driven innovation for service sectors; and, through the ‘Data to early diagnostics and precision medicine’ programme
we will invest to enhance the power of health data to diagnose life-changing diseases at the earliest possible stage and develop precision treatments
*All wave 2 programmes are subject to final business case, when further details on funding will be made available




38

We will also support businesses with regulation that stimulates and facilitates innovation. Building on
the ‘sandbox’ approaches that the Financial Conduct Authority and Ofgem, the energy regulator, have successfully implemented, we are establishing a
£10m Regulators’ Pioneer Fund to support UK regulators to develop innovative approaches to emerging technologies.
We will foster, attract and retain the best and brightest research talent. The Alan Turing Institute will become the national research
centre for AI, supporting new Turing Fellowships. We will invest £45m to support additional PhDs in AI and related disciplines, increasing numbers by at least 200 extra places a year by 2020-21, aiming to expand the numbers in UK universities year-on-year into the next decade.
We will also develop people’s skills to keep up with the speed of technological change by supporting universities and businesses to develop an industry- funded masters programme, with an initial scale of over 200 places. We will also work
 with industry to explore how best to train cross-discipline professionals to apply AI in their specialist areas, for example through conversion courses and continuing professional development.
‘We will build on our world-class
research by working with industry to develop innovative uses of AI and advanced analytic technologies through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund.’
A major source of productivity improvements comes from making the most of AI and machine learning across the economy. We
are working with industry to establish an industry-led AI Council that can take
a leadership role across sectors. The AI Council will be supported by a new government Office for AI.
In partnership with industry and academia, these bodies will champion research and innovation, stimulate demand and accelerate uptake across all sectors of the economy.
The office, working with the AI Council, will lead work to increase awareness of the advantages of advanced data analytic technologies and promote greater diversity
in the AI workforce.





39



To support rapid adoption of AI technologies at scale, the Office for AI will work initially with six priority business sectors: cybersecurity; life
sciences; construction; manufacturing; energy; and agricultural technology.
The office will work in partnership with the new GovTech Catalyst to ensure the public sector can benefit from these technologies. It will also collaborate with partners to promote adoption, for example through the Digital Catapult’s ‘Machine Learning Garage’ programme launching in January. This programme will provide
low-cost access to high quality machine learning computation power for start- ups, and support businesses of all
sizes with expertise on cost-effective machine learning computation.
As the global market expands, we will increase our export support for AI and data businesses. The Global Entrepreneur Programme will look to increase its focus on attracting AI and data-led businesses to establish headquarters in the UK.
We will lead the world in safe and ethical use of data and artificial intelligence giving confidence and clarity to citizens and business
AI and data are already creating enormous opportunities for us to understand more about everything, from our health to what we like to buy. But it is vital that we remove barriers to innovation and ensure that data is used in a way that is both safe and fair to individuals.
 The UK will take an international leadership role by investing £9m in a new Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation. This world-first
advisory body will review the existing governance landscape and advise the government on how we can enable and ensure ethical, safe and innovative uses of data, including AI. This will include engaging with industry to explore establishing data trusts to facilitate easy and secure sharing of data. We will consult widely in due course on
the detailed remit for this new centre.
We will also strengthen overall data security, reinforcing the UK’s position as a global centre for cybersecurity. We will develop detailed recommendations over the next six months.
We will help people develop the skills needed for jobs of the future
AI and data analytics will change jobs and businesses, and we want people to be able to capitalise on these opportunities. Our Industrial Strategy builds on our work to develop people’s skills, investing an additional £406m in maths, digital and technical skills
in England. This includes investing
£84m over the next five years to deliver a comprehensive programme to improve the teaching of computing and drive up participation in computer science. We will up-skill 8,000 computer science teachers and work with industry to set up a new National Centre for Computing Education.





40

We will also promote a new adult digital skills entitlement to support basic training and our new National Retraining Scheme will help people
re-skill and up-skill as the economy changes, including as a result of automation.
This scheme will be informed by career learning pilots, which are testing barriers to adults engaging in learning, and the National Retraining Partnership. Initially it will focus on priority skills, including digital. As a first step, we will invest £30m
to test the use of AI and innovative education technology (edtech) in online digital skills courses.
 We also need to build an evidence base about how technological change may affect different sectors, groups and places. Building on the work of Skills Advisory Panels and local Digital Skills Partnerships in England, the government and industry will explore how data analytics can be used to improve
‘AI and data are already creating enormous opportunities for us to understand more about everything, from our health to what we like to buy.’






One of the many applications of AI and data analytics technologies is to enable more efficient use of energy and resources. For example, intelligent algorithms applied to data on atmospheric conditions and soil moisture could dramatically reduce the amount of water needed for agriculture. Actions to support our first Grand Challenge will complement the second challenge we have identified – maximising the advantages to UK industry of the global shift to clean growth.









41


Clean Growth

We will maximise the advantages for UK industry from the global shift to clean growth – through leading the world in the development, manufacture and use of low carbon technologies, systems and services that cost less than high carbon alternatives.

The move to cleaner economic growth
– through low carbon technologies and the efficient use of resources – is one of the greatest industrial opportunities of our time. By one estimate, the UK’s
clean economy could grow at four times the rate of GDP23. Whole new industries will be created and existing industries transformed as we move towards a
low carbon, more resource-efficient
 economy. The Paris Agreement of 2015 commits countries to revolutionising power, transport, heating and cooling, industrial processes and agriculture.
The effect of these changes will be felt by businesses throughout
the economy, and will involve the reallocation of trillions of pounds of public and private finance towards the pursuit of cleaner growth.




























Global green bond issuance
Stowe Global Coal Index
2011	2012	2013	2014	2015	2016	2017
0
0
40
2000
80
4000
120
6000
160
Stowe Global Coal Index and global green bonds issuance

8000
Shift of global investment towards the clean economy
Billion USD

42





The UK has been at the forefront of encouraging the world to move towards clean growth. We are determined to play a leading role in providing the technologies, innovations, goods and services of this future. We want to support our strong automotive, aerospace and construction industries
to increase their share of global markets as they shift to clean energy sources and efficient new materials. We want UK businesses to lead the development of new markets in areas such as smart energy systems and the ‘bio-economy’
– the use of renewable biological resources from land and sea to produce food, materials and energy.
We also want everyone to feel the benefits of clean growth, so we will work to create a future where our cities benefit from cleaner air, our businesses from enhanced resource security and our countryside from regenerated natural capital.
The UK is already one of the most successful countries at growing our economy
while reducing emissions. We have cut emissions by more
 than 40 per cent24 since 1990, while our economy has grown by two thirds25. Our recently-published Clean Growth Strategy26 sets out our ambitious proposals for continuing this progress through the 2020s. We have world- leading capabilities in areas including electric vehicle manufacture, offshore wind, smart energy systems, sustainable construction, precision agriculture and
‘The move to cleaner economic growth – through low carbon technologies
and the efficient use of resources
– is one of the greatest industrial opportunities of our time.’
We will aim to maximise UK businesses’ share of the global markets as they are transformed by the shift
to clean growth, and make our country one of the best places in the world to develop and sell clean technologies.
We will increase our support for innovation so that the costs of clean technologies, systems and services are reduced across all sectors, and we will collaborate
on international initiatives such as Mission Innovation
– a global partnership for clean energy research and development – to bring




43

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































44








































44







the best minds together to accelerate progress. We will align our policies, regulations, taxes and investments to grow the markets for these new
innovations so that they are successfully commercialised in the UK. Our long-term goals are to make clean technologies cost less than high carbon alternatives, and for UK businesses to take the lead in supplying them to global markets.
We will take action to establish and extend UK leadership in the following early priority areas:
We will develop smart systems for cheap and clean energy across power, heating and transport
Smart systems transform our ability to use clean energy cost-effectively, and so will be in high demand globally. We are good at designing such systems. A national electricity grid was a great British technical achievement. Now we
are setting ourselves the challenge of remodelling it so it can handle many different sources of clean energy,
and use new technologies to store energy and manage
 demand. We will launch a new Industrial Strategy
‘Prospering from the energy revolution’ programme
‘Our long-term goals are to make clean technologies cost less than
high carbon alternatives, and for UK businesses to take the lead in supplying them to global markets.’
while creating high value jobs and export capabilities. Our world-leading Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan27 will build on the rollout of smart meters to grow the markets for these systems and technologies in the UK. We will continue to work closely with the nuclear and offshore wind industries
to further drive down the costs of clean power, while building UK supply chains. We will also continue to explore the long-term options for clean heating and the many potential uses of low carbon hydrogen.
We will transform construction techniques to dramatically
improve efficiency
A rapidly urbanising world needs buildings that can be constructed and operated more efficiently. Our
new Industrial Strategy ‘Transforming Construction’ programme will take full






45





























We will grow the markets for innovative farming technologies and techniques such as the use of drones
kind of system integration at which the UK excels. We have launched
a call for evidence on additional measures to build a market for energy efficiency among homeowners.
This will incentivise greater private investment in household and commercial building energy efficiency, to grow the markets for these types of buildings and technologies.
 We will make our energy- intensive industries competitive in the clean economy
Global markets for clean and efficient industrial fuels, processes and materials are growing rapidly. We are investing
£162m in innovation for low carbon industry, and developing a new strategy for the bio-economy. We will work with industry to stimulate further market investment in clean and efficient technologies and process, including through all manufacturing Sector Deals, and through developing a
new scheme to support investment in industrial energy efficiency.
This scheme will help large businesses install measures that will cut their energy use and bills, as well as improve their productivity. This will build on the 2050 Decarbonisation Action Plans that we have agreed with seven of
the most energy-intensive sectors.

Industrial Strategy White Paper


46

We will put the UK at the forefront of the global move to high- efficiency agriculture
Rising global demand for food and water is increasing the need for agriculture that produces more from less. Our new ‘Transforming food production: from farm to fork’ programme will
put the UK at the forefront of advanced sustainable agriculture. Over the coming years,as we replace the Common Agricultural Policy, we will increase the incentives for investment in sustainable agriculture,
helping to grow the markets for innovative technologies and techniques. With powers set to return from the EU, the UK government is in discussions with the
 devolved administrations over future arrangements. Our work will develop in line with the outcome
‘We are investing
£162m in innovation for low-carbon industry, and also developing a new strategy for the
bio-economy.’
We will make the UK the global standard- setter for finance that supports clean growth
We will extend the UK’s global leadership in green finance – building on our world-leading financial sector
– working with industry through our new Green Finance Taskforce.
We are now working with the British Standards Institution and the City of London’s Green Finance Initiative to develop the world’s first green financial management standards.







We use an enormous amount of energy to move people and goods from place to place: around 40 per cent
of the UK’s total final energy use28. Developing UK leadership in low carbon transport is therefore a shared priority with our Future of Mobility Grand Challenge.
We will invest in innovation to develop clean technologies across road, rail, aviation and maritime transport.





47


The Future of Mobility

We will become a world leader in shaping the future of mobility.

We are on the cusp of a profound change in how we move people, goods and services around our towns, cities and countryside. This is driven by extraordinary innovation in engineering, technology and business models.
Significant investments are being made in the electrification and automation of road vehicles, in the modernisation of rail services to deliver higher capacity, speed and connectivity, and in the development of autonomous aerial and marine transport. New market entrants and new business models, such as
ride-hailing services, ride sharing and
 ‘mobility as a service’, are challenging our assumptions about how we travel.
These technologies can transform public transport. The UK’s road and rail network could dramatically reduce carbon emissions and other pollutants, congestion could be
reduced through higher-density use of road space enabled by automated vehicles, and mobility could be available when we want it, where
we want it and how we want it.


























						2010	2011	2012	2013	2014	2015	2016
0.0%
0
0.5%
20

10
1.0%
30
1.5%
New registrations (LHS)
% of total new cars (RHS)
40
New electric car registrations
UK electric car ownership has increased rapidly since 2010
Thousands


48

The government wants to see fully self-driving cars on the UK roads by 2021
‘New market entrants and new business models, such as ride-hailing services, ride sharing and mobility as a service, are challenging our assumptions about how we travel.’









We have significant strengths in many of the most relevant areas of research and development, including artificial intelligence and complex vehicle engineering. We have dynamic businesses developing new mobility solutions, and innovative, strong and diverse automotive, rail, maritime and aviation sectors. We have a long history of bringing transport innovation to the world. We also have strengthening leadership
at a local level, with mayors in English cities and City Deal Boards in Scotland and Wales actively pursuing new ways to address the complex transport needs of our cities.
 As the UK has the highest percentage of the population living in urban areas in the OECD we are well placed
to contribute to these challenges of urbanisation29.
We will build on the innovative work of the Office for Low Emission Vehicles, the Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles and the Transport Catapult to look across the road transport system for opportunities to improve customers’ experience, drive efficiency and enable people to move around more freely.
We will work with a full range of stakeholders across the UK to deliver this challenge.




49



We have identified four early priorities:
We will establish a flexible regulatory framework to encourage new modes of transport and new business models
Mobility has always depended on standards. Our regulatory environment must evolve with the times to support the emergence of new technologies and new business models. We will ensure we continue to have one of the most open environments in the world for transport innovation and new services by undertaking a thorough regulatory review of all relevant legislation.
The government wants to see fully self-driving cars, without a human operator, on UK roads by 2021. We will therefore make world-leading changes to the regulatory framework, including updating our code of practice for testing automated vehicles to allow
developers to apply to test their vehicles nationwide without a human safety operator and carrying out a project with the Law Commission to set out proposals for a long-term regulatory framework for self-driving vehicles.
 We will seize the opportunities and address the challenges of moving from hydrocarbon to zero emission vehicles
For zero emission vehicles to become universal the right framework is needed. Building on the work of the Faraday Battery Institute and the Office for Low Emission Vehicles programme, we have announced a package to support the transition to zero emission vehicles.
This includes a new £400m Charging Infrastructure Investment Fund (£200m from the government to
be matched by private investors);
£100m new funding for the plug- in car grant; £40m R&D funding
(matched by industry) for new charging technologies including on-street and wireless projects; and a commitment that the government will lead the
way, making 25 per cent of all cars in the central government department fleet ultra-low emission by 2022.
Building on these commitments, in the coming months we will publish a strategy on government support for the transition to zero emission road
transport, ensuring the UK continues to be a world leader in the development, manufacture and use of these vehicles.















50

We will prepare for a future of new mobility services, increased autonomy, journey- sharing and a blurring of the distinctions between private and public transport
The future mobility marketplace is likely to operate differently to the transport system of
today. We will consult with industry and others on the government’s role to support this, and publish a Future
of Urban Mobility strategy within the next 12 months. The National Infrastructure Commission (NIC) will also launch a new innovation prize to determine how future roadbuilding should adapt to supporting self- driving cars, with the West Midlands, a UK centre of expertise on connected and autonomous vehicles, being a key testing location for the best entries. We will also be investing £5m from
 the 5G Testbeds and Trials programme for an initial trial, starting in 2018, of 5G applications and deployment on roads, including helping to test how we can maximise future productivity benefits from self-driving cars.
‘We will ensure we continue to have one of the most open environments in the world
for transport innovation and new services by undertaking a
thorough regulatory review.’
and enable the more effective operation of our transport system
We will continue to invest in R&D and testbed infrastructure for
connected and autonomous vehicles. We will explore how simulated digital environments can support and accelerate development of self-driving technology through an R&D competition to be launched by the Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles,
the first R&D competition of its kind in Europe.





One of the main groups benefiting from this revolution is older people who may no longer be able to drive or
have other difficulties with mobility. Our fourth challenge is focused on meeting the particular needs of an
ageing society.


51


Ageing Society

We will harness the power of innovation to help meet the needs of an ageing society.

The UK population is ageing, as it is across the industrialised  world.  We are living longer than ever before; we have historically lower birth rates; a large cohort of people – the so-called ‘baby boomers’ born after the Second World War – are reaching retirement30. One in three children born in the UK today can expect to live to 10031.
 The prospect of longer lives will require people to plan their careers and retirement differently. Ageing populations will create new demands
for technologies, products and services, including new care technologies,
new housing models and innovative savings products for retirement. We have an obligation to help our older citizens lead independent, fulfilled lives, continuing to contribute to society.

Millions




























Aged 65 or over (%, LHS)
UK population (RHS)
20
2036	2046
1976	1986	1996	2006	2016	2026
0%
40
20%

10%
60
30%
80
40%
UK population and proportion of population aged 65 and over
By 2046 almost 1 in 4 people will be 65 years old and over
14.2%
24.8%
*2016-based population projections are used


52

Ageing populations will create new demands for technologies, products and services
‘One in three children born in the UK today can expect to live to
100. The prospect of longer lives will require people to plan their careers and retirement differently.’









Innovation in age-related products and services can make a significant difference to UK productivity and individuals’ wellbeing, and will find a growing global market. Ageing also presents significant challenges to the economy, including greater caring demands on those of working age and increased health and social care costs. Without action, an ageing population could reduce the size of our workforce and lead to lower productivity.
If we succeed, we will create an economy which works for everyone, regardless of age. A new generation of British businesses will be thriving in the growing global market
 for age-related products and services. Older people will be able to lead fuller, more independent lives, increasingly supported by smart home technologies, wearable devices and tech- enabled health and care services. British businesses will have redesigned jobs and workplaces to better use their older workers’ experience, enabling individuals to keep active and stay in work. Workers will have more flexibility
to help balance their work with caring responsibilities. Younger generations will be able to plan for their longer careers with confidence.




53



Many countries are grappling with this challenge, most notably Japan. There are some distinctive British opportunities which build on our strengths. These include powerful health datasets in the NHS, world-leading design institutes,
the artificial intelligence research community, a strong life sciences sector and the financial services industry. Making the most of these advantages could turn the ageing challenge into a global opportunity.
We will take action to and extend UK leadership in four early priority areas:
We will support new products and services for the growing
global population of older people, meeting important social needs and realising the business opportunity for the UK
Globally, there are likely to be two billion people over the age of 60 by 205032. UK businesses must take advantage of markets created by this rise in older consumers. Doing this could also improve people’s quality of life. Through a forthcoming Industrial Strategy ‘Healthy Ageing’ programme we will invest in innovation to help older people maintain their chosen lifestyle, and stay independent for longer. We will explore opportunities to work with UK businesses to encourage emerging consumer markets, and the development of innovative products and services
that support people throughout their working life and into retirement. This could include new finance products or partnering with the retail tech sector
 to identify barriers to the development and diffusion of new products.
We will support sectors to adapt to a changing and ageing workforce
As people lead longer, healthier lives, they will need to save and work for longer to ensure they have a secure retirement. With an ageing workforce and fewer people entering the labour market from education and training, employers will need a more flexible labour market that can accommodate older workers. The government will continue to build on the Fuller Working Lives Strategy and has already appointed a Business Champion specifically for older workers. This signals our commitment to work with employers to promote the benefits
of older workers to employers across England – in terms of their strategic approach and practical advice. We will also encourage industries to
lead in adapting their workplaces to the requirements of an ageing
workforce. To help realise the potential in the labour market, including amongst women, older workers, carers and disabled people, we will work with business to make flexible working a reality for all employees across Britain and to inform the evaluation of the Right to Request Flexible Working regulations.
We will leverage our health data to improve health outcomes and UK leadership in life sciences
The NHS generates powerful datasets that could be harnessed in a safe,
fair and secure manner to develop




54

new tools to diagnose and treat illness earlier. In response to Professor Sir John Bell’s life sciences review33, the government
will be working to develop a number of regional Digital Innovation Hubs. These hubs will support the use of data for research purposes within the strict parameters set by the National Data Guardian. Health and social care are devolved but the technological challenges and benefits can be supported and seized across the UK. Through the Industrial Strategy ‘Data to early diagnostics and precision medicine’ programme,
we will invest to continue to explore the application of data for better, more innovative health and care.
 We will support care providers to adapt their business models to changing demands,
‘There are some distinctive British opportunities which build on our strengths… Making the most of these advantages could turn the ageing challenge into a global opportunity.‘
The government’s forthcoming Green Paper on care and support in England will respond to the wide challenges facing the social care sector, setting out proposals for long-term, sustainable reform. The Industrial Strategy can play
a role in supporting the care sector to adapt for the future. We will support the care sector to innovate and
develop new business models, including by making better use of emerging technology through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. We will also encourage care businesses
to access the opportunities provided by the strengthened Growth Hub network.


Next Steps


What we have outlined here is just the start. Over the months ahead we want to work in partnership with businesses, universities, researchers and civil society on these Grand Challenges. All four are ambitious – and they are difficult. Success is
 not guaranteed. But trying to tackle them is not just
worthwhile, it is essential. If we can rise to these challenges we will have equipped
our country for a future that is not just prosperous but also socially and
environmentally responsible.





55

aper



Ideas














































56

Our ability to innovate – to develop new ideas and deploy them - is one of Britain’s historic strengths





































57




Ideas

To be the world’s most innovative economy

Our ability to innovate – to develop new ideas and deploy them – is one of Britain’s great historic strengths, from
the jet engine and the bagless vacuum to MRI scanners and the World Wide Web.
We are a global leader in science and research: top in measures of research excellence and home to four of the top 10 universities in the world.
We need to do more to ensure our excellence in discovery translates into its application in industrial and commercial practices, and so into
` Raising total R&D investment to
2.4 per cent of GDP by 2027
` Increasing the rate of R&D tax credit to 12 per cent
` Investing £725m in new Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund programmes to capture the value of innovation
do more to grow innovation strengths in every part of the UK, as well as maintaining our position as a global leader in science and innovation.
 Through our Industrial Strategy, Britain will take a leading role in a new industrial revolution as significant as the last. We will drive change through the biggest increase in public investment in R&D in our history. We will ensure the UK is the best place for innovators, and through our Grand Challenges we will drive partnerships between the best minds in science and business throughout Britain.

Key policies include:



















58







Innovation is about new ideas, new ways of doing things, new products and services, new technologies and new business models. It can come from radical transformation or incremental improvements; from within a business or from a new insurgent; from
a major scientific advance or the application of a known technology in a new process. Our ideas are crucial to the productivity improvements that boost our earning power.
 Our ability to innovate – to develop new ideas and deploy them – is one of Britain’s historic strengths. We are a nation of innovators: from Sir Frank Whittle’s jet engine to Sir Tim Berners-Lee’s World Wide Web; from Sir James Dyson’s bagless vacuum cleaner to the automatic kettle of Russell Hobbs. The UK is rated one of the most innovative countries in the world – an ‘innovation leader’ in the 2017 European

Biological sciences
Business
Health & medical sciences
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
Humanities
‘We will drive change through the biggest increase in public investment in research and development in our history.’

The UK research base across research fields
UK field-weighted citation impact across research fields
Clinical sciences







	Social	Environmental
sciences	sciences

Engineering
Mathematics
Physical sciences


2006
2010
2014
World Average (=1.0)

Source: Elsevier (2017) “International comparative performance of the UK Research Base 2016”. A field-weighted citation impact of 1.0 represents world average

59


Over half of UK firms are innovating.
Of those firms:
51% used new business practices.





36%	38% used
introduced	new methods
new products.	of organising
their work.


25%	30% changed their
innovated in	marketing concepts
their processes.	or strategies.

Based on UK Innovation Survey Data 2015. Survey only includes enterprises with 10+ employees


Innovation Scoreboard and 23 per cent above the EU average performance34. We are recognised as a global leader in science and research, top in measures of research excellence35 and home
to four of the top ten universities in the world36. We punch above our weight in delivering high-quality, impactful and diverse research work.
We have leading-edge research and development (R&D) in many sectors and industries, including but not limited to life sciences, aerospace, automotive, technology, energy and the creative industries. We also have world-class service sectors including in law, accounting, financial services,
 advertising, architecture and insurance. We have a lively and thriving start-up environment. We produce and attract some of the most talented people in the world and draw in proportionally more internationally mobile R&D
than other large countries37.
While we score well on measures of research and innovation, we need to do more to ensure this translates
into improvements in earning power. According to the UK Innovation Survey, just over half of our businesses are classed as innovative38, meaning there is significant potential to raise our game.
There are four key challenges that this Industrial Strategy will address.





60

Our first challenge is that neither the government nor the private sector is investing enough in R&D. This holds back the productivity of
both public services and business. It means the UK risks losing out in the race to develop the technologies and innovations that will shape the businesses and markets of the future. We invest less in R&D than most of our competitors – 1.7 per cent of GDP compared to 2.8 per cent in the United States and
2.9 per cent in Germany39.
Even after allowing for the structure of our economy
– which is dominated by services rather than the traditionally R&D-intensive sectors like manufacturing – we still invest comparatively little40. Business investment in R&D in the UK is relatively low41. R&D performed in businesses is concentrated in a small number of big businesses and in a small number of sectors such as pharmaceuticals, motor vehicles and technology42.
Indeed, just over three quarters of private R&D investment in the UK is driven by 400 businesses43. Fewer of our small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) introduce new products and processes than their European competitors44. Furthermore,
 the latest data shows that the UK’s strength in research is being challenged by emerging economies45.
R&D is an example of public spending stimulating rather than displacing private spending: economies
‘R&D is an example of public spending stimulating rather than displacing private spending… In the UK every £1 of public investment on R&D attracts around
£1.40 in private investment.’
Our second challenge is improving our ability to turn exciting ideas into commercial products and services and capture their maximum value. Our world-class science and research does not always feed through to world-leading home-grown businesses.
There have been major breakthroughs made in UK universities and research labs bought up by global businesses – from magnetic resonance imaging in the 1970s, lithium-ion batteries in the 1980s, monoclonal antibodies in the 1990s and genetic sequencing in the last decade. All of these are pioneering UK ideas being developed elsewhere or bought by businesses from overseas. Within R&D, the ‘D’ for development needs a particular boost.



61



Much of our innovation tends to be in areas such as software and branding, including marketing and advertising48, which often require less patient capital to fund them. We are good at low-cost innovation and flexible start-ups but the
long and patient process of getting a new technology to market is difficult. As a result many of our innovative businesses are nimble, flexible and imaginative
but do not grow to be substantial, big or strong. There are exceptions, but in general British businesses’ R&D tends to favour quick routes to market, rather than long development times, and selling businesses to growing them.
Our third challenge is to build research and innovation excellence across the UK. There is world class R&D and innovation across the UK, from excellent research
 in university departments and public research organisations to investments from leading businesses. We need to capitalise on these strengths and foster the local ecosystems that can support innovation and sustained growth.
The Science and Innovation Audits49 – led by consortia of business, universities
and Local Enterprise Partnerships in England and relevant agencies in the devolved nations – are revealing
distinct local and regional strengths and opportunities for collaboration across the UK. But they are also exposing the barriers an area can face in building
its strengths into an ecosystem that attracts investment and talent – such as access to skills or knowledge and the capacity of businesses to innovate.

























Government financed
Non-government financed
Gross domestic expenditure on R&D by source of financing as a proportion of GDP, 2015
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
UK’s spending on research and development compared to other countries
KDR ISR CHE SWE JPN AUT DNK DEU FIN USA BEL OECD FRA SVN ISL NLD CZE NOR CAN GBR IRL EST HUN ITA LUX PRT NZL ESP SVK POL GRC TUR LVA MEX CHL

62

Our fourth challenge is to ensure the UK remains a world leader in global science and innovation collaboration. A total of 17 per cent of UK R&D investment is financed from abroad50 and half
of UK R&D performed in business was by overseas- owned businesses51.
%
of total UK R&D investment
 We must ensure we remain connected to other leading international sources of ideas and have the capacity to absorb the advances they are making, working closely with the devolved nations to make the most of strengths and opportunities across the UK. We need to make strategic choices to maximise our international collaborations
to support UK priorities and the Grand Challenges.

is financed from abroad

Half of all UK research publications in 2014 were internationally co-authored
– a share that has increased every year since 2010 – with these articles  tending to score more highly on excellence and impact52.
This demonstrates that international collaboration is vital to our continued success. But UK leadership is being challenged by emerging economies and competition grows for research talent
and private investment. For us to remain a leading R&D nation, we will need to capitalise on our strong reputation and continue to attract the top talent from around the world, including from EU member states.
 If we address all this together we will be stronger not just in R&D and wider innovation, but in maximising the productivity and earning
power benefits for businesses and people throughout the country. By 2030 we want the UK to be the most innovative country in the world: a
home to the most dynamic businesses at the cutting edge of new technologies and processes, and which supports all businesses to adopt new ways of working to help them prosper. This means investing in R&D and the skills needed in a
changing work environment to maximise the rewards and benefits innovation can bring to everyone in the UK.

‘By 2030 we want the UK to be the most innovative country
in the world: a home to the most dynamic businesses at the cutting edge of new technologies and processes.’




63




A nation of innovators


2004
Discovery and isolation of a single free-standing atomic layer of carbon (graphene) at Manchester University

1978
First successful birth of a child after IVF treatment

1967
Sir Godfrey Hounsfield conceives the idea for the CT Scanner


1926
John Logie Baird was the first to transmit moving pictures



1880
Joseph Swan started manufacturing and selling
light bulbs

1843
Ada Lovelace created one of the first computer programmes

1825
George Stephenson invents the passenger railway

1668
Sir Isaac Newton invented the reflecting
telescope


64







2011
Saturn Bioponics develop the world’s first
three-dimensional crop growing system

2012
Susannah Clarke revolutionised joint replacements
by using 3D printed technology allowing personalised joint replacement with fewer complications
2013
Surrey Satellite Technology’s S-band radar system, NovaSAR, which revolutionises navigation and surveillance communications wins an Innovation award from the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
2015
Oxford Nanopore launch MinION a portable DNA sequencing USB device for on-the-go RNA/DNA sequencing which can be used to monitor viruses like Ebola or trace antibiotic resistance without the need for large scale computing infrastructure
2015
DeepMind’s AlphaGo defeats the reigning Go European Champion becoming the first programme to defeat a professional player, giving us deeper understanding of the power and flexibility of machine learning
2016
Double Negative wins its third Academy Award for its pioneering visual effects work on sci-fi psychological thriller Ex Machina
2017
Richard Henderson awarded the Nobel Chemistry Prize for developing cryo- electron microscopy for the high- resolution structure determination of biomolecules in solution

65































Our Grand Challenges will be driven by R&D in artificial intelligence and data-driven technology, clean growth, adapting to an ageing society and future mobility

Investing in R&D to transform our economy.

For the UK to become the most innovative country in the world we need a generational increase in public and private R&D investment. In this strategy we commit to reach 2.4 per cent of GDP investment in R&D by 2027 and to reach 3 per cent of GDP in the longer term, placing us in the top quartile of OECD countries.
If we meet this target we will transform our economy. It could increase public and private R&D investment by as much as £80bn over the next 10 years, with much wider benefits across the UK economy.
 We could see a dramatic change in the use of R&D by industry, with our businesses creating the next generation of technologies to
revolutionise productivity in all sectors from construction and agriculture
to manufacturing and the creative industries. This will raise the standard of living and establish UK leadership in global markets. The UK will lead the way in the R&D driving our Grand
Challenges: in artificial intelligence and data-driven technology, clean growth, the ageing society and mobility.

Industrial Strategy White Paper


66







Our vision for a knowledge- led economy is underpinned by world-leading research, world-class facilities and international collaborations that push scientific frontiers and attract the brightest talents, from Nobel Prize winners to ambitious graduate students. ‘Innovation clusters’ will form and grow around our universities and research organisations, bringing together world-class research, business expertise and entrepreneurial drive.
These clusters can create thousands of skilled jobs in R&D, innovation and wider sectors, driven by the growth in science, technology, engineering
and maths (STEM) skills led by new teachers and more doctorates. These skilled people and businesses must be located throughout the UK, growing research and innovation strengths throughout England, as
well as in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Increasing investment in R&D to 2.4 per cent of GDP in a decade is ambitious and will require concerted effort by the government
and business. As a first step we will invest an additional
£2.3bn over what was previously planned in
 2021/22, raising total public investment in R&D to approximately £12.5bn in that year alone. This investment will see public R&D spending increase as a share of GDP every year. It means that we will have raised public investment in R&D from around £9.5bn
‘Our vision for a knowledge- led economy is underpinned by world-leading
research, world- class facilities and international
collaborations that push scientific frontiers and attract the brightest talents.’
£12.5bn in 2021/22.

£12.5bn
public investment in R&D in 2021/22 alone

This is an extra £7bn over five years – the biggest ever increase in public funding of R&D. We will invest strategically in technologies and ideas closer to market
to drive UK competitiveness, while also continuing to fund the curiosity-driven research that is fundamental to the quality of our work and ensures our place as a world- leading knowledge economy.
We will work with industry in the coming months to develop a roadmap for meeting this target. This will provide a framework to drive business investment in R&D and focus on key sectors, technologies



67



and clusters, including by optimising government investment to drive private investment in R&D and considering further opportunities to improve the business environment, including access to finance, regulatory frameworks, and intellectual property. This will maximise the impact of public investment in science and innovation to support businesses to invest more and drive outputs to realise our commitment to invest 2.4 per cent of GDP in R&D.
There are measures we can take now to help achieve this target:
` We will invest a further £725m in a second wave of the Industrial Strategy Challenge programme across the UK to respond to some of the greatest global challenges and opportunities – from climate change to automation. This will bring together world-class UK research with business investment to develop the technologies
and industries of the future and ensure we capture the value of these innovations to our economy. Further details of this investment are outlined in the next section.
` We will invest £300m over the next three years in world-class talent including in priority areas aligned with the Industrial Strategy, such
as artificial intelligence, to enhance our skilled workforce and attract private sector R&D investment.
This investment will focus on collaboration and the flow of people between industry and academia and interdisciplinary and cutting-edge
 research and innovation to support the Industrial Strategy programme and the Grand Challenges. Support will range from Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and PhD programmes, with strong and flexible links to industry, to prestigious awards that support rising stars and the top talent from both the UK and overseas.
` We will work with our leading universities, research institutes and UK Research and Innovation to increase global investors’ R&D activities taking place in the UK. Of the world’s 2,500 top R&D investors, just 50 businesses are responsible for 40 per cent of private sector investment globally53.
If we could attract an additional five per cent of R&D from these top 50, UK-based R&D would increase by around a third54.
` We will work with UKRI to develop a new competitive Strategic Priorities Fund, which builds on the vision of
a ‘common fund’ set out in Sir Paul Nurse’s review55. This will support high quality R&D priorities which would otherwise be missed – multi- disciplinary and inter-disciplinary programmes identified by researchers and businesses at the cutting edge
of research and innovation. We will set out further details in due course. UK Research and Innovation strategy will deliver a real-terms increase in council budgets of approximately
20 per cent between 2015/16 and 2019/20. We will also increase support for Quality-Related research





68

through Research England. This recognises the vital importance of providing underpinning funding
for our world-leading universities to invest in the excellence and impact of their research and ensure the sustainability of our research infrastructure.
` We will improve the UK tax system to
support innovation. The government will increase the rate of the R&D expenditure  credit  for large businesses from 11 per cent to 12 per cent from 1 January 2018. To provide businesses with the confidence to make R&D investment decisions, the government will also introduce a new Advanced Clearance Service  for R&D expenditure credit claims. More widely, the government will work
with small and medium sized businesses, and those developing new and emerging technologies, to ensure that they can access the maximum amount of support from R&D tax credits, and will
launch a campaign to raise awareness in these sectors.
 ` We will make it easier to finance innovation by increasing the resources for government agencies that promote and fund innovation like Innovate UK – our world leading innovation agency that
‘If we could attract an additional five per cent of research and development from these top
50 research and development investors, UK-based R&D would increase by around a third.‘
and innovate – and the British Business Bank. As detailed in the Business Environment chapter, we will increase the funding of the British Business Bank and create a new investment fund to ensure the best knowledge- intensive, high-growth businesses get access
to the venture capital they need to scale up and become world- beating businesses.
` We are also allocating a further £44m of grant funding to enable Innovate UK to fund
£150m of responsive grant competitions in 2017/18. This will allow it to support hundreds more high-growth businesses, collaborations and industries to innovate and compete in future global markets.








69



In addition, Innovate UK will pilot new ways of financing innovation:
	•	£50m Innovation Loans pilot over the next two years to target the most promising projects in viable businesses on the cusp
of commercialisation, but not yet ready to access loans from commercial lenders; and
	•	an Investment Accelerator pilot to bring in seed equity alongside grant funding by matching the most innovative early stage businesses with investors. This will attract and bring forward private capital alongside public funding.
Both pilots will be evaluated to assess their success and determine if they can be scaled up in future.
` We will develop an agile approach to regulation that promotes innovation, the growth of new sectors, and innovative market entrants while ensuring effective protections for citizens and the environment. An example is establishing a clear framework for autonomous vehicles and, through our Digital Charter, building agreement on the ethical and effective use of new technologies and data. This will build on successful, innovative approaches to regulation (like regulatory sandboxes) trialled
by the Financial Conduct Authority and Ofgem.
 ` We will improve public procurement as an important source of finance for innovative businesses that does not dilute their equity and gives an endorsement for others to invest. The United States is particularly effective at promoting innovation in this way through its Small Business Innovation Research programme. David Connell, an expert on technology exploitation programmes, has reviewed the UK’s Small Business Research Initiative (SBRI) programme. Informed by
this review, and recognising the value of the programme, we will refocus the SBRI to increase its impact for innovative businesses, aligning it with Grand Challenges and building capability in the public sector to drive productivity by adopting SBRI solutions. As a first step, this month we announced
a new GovTech Catalyst with a GovTech Fund of up to £20m over three years, which will use SBRI to support tech firms to provide the government with innovative solutions for more efficient public services.










70

The Trusted Data Exchange used by Belfast City Council.






Case Study: the growth of ‘nquiringminds’
‘We will develop an agile approach to regulation that
promotes innovation, the growth of
new sectors, and innovative market entrants.’


Innovative start-up ‘nquiringminds’ took an idea from concept to product with SBRI support, and tested it
with Belfast City Council.
The Trusted Data Exchange (TDX) provides analytics and secure data-sharing, powered by artificial intelligence, that
allows users to share data sets, maximising the ability to analyse and generate insight. ‘nquiringminds’ and Belfast City Council used the TDX with internal
 and open datasets to optimise the collection of business rates. SBRI played a pivotal role in the company’s growth from a start-up with a novel idea to a 12-person business with plans for continued growth.
Stable SBRI funding over several years enabled the company to build a skilled team, create intellectual assets and, importantly, to test a new product in
a real-world environment and enter a new market.













71





























UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) will join up the funding landscape for science, research and innovation and help to translate excellent research into better business outcomes




Capturing the value of ideas

If the UK is to be the most innovative country in the world, we need to be able to capture the value from our science, research and creativity and support innovations that drive our productivity.

There is no single path to innovation. Successful products and services come from a range of sources – from businesses developing new products and universities creating businesses to the lone inventor commercialising an idea. The government will do more to address some of the frictions in the system to support
 collaboration and the flow of knowledge between research and industry, accelerating the path to market.
In order to capture more value from our ideas and innovations, we are creating UK Research and Innovation, which will invest around £8bn per annum by 2020 in the highest-quality research and innovation across the UK.

Industrial Strategy White Paper


72







This new organisation will ensure the UK maintains its world-leading position in research and innovation.
Bringing together the seven research councils, Innovate UK and the funding element of the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), UK Research
and Innovation will join up the funding landscape for science, research and
innovation and help translate excellent research into better business outcomes.
We are investing in strategic innovation challenges through the ambitious
new Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, which will help deliver the Grand Challenges and support
sector productivity including through Sector Deals. The Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund brings together world- class UK research with business investment to develop the technologies that will transform existing industries and create entirely new ones. We announced
£1bn of investment in Wave 1 across the UK – focused on
areas of strategic importance to the UK, including: the Faraday Battery Challenge
to design, develop and
 manufacture batteries for the electrification of vehicles and efficient use of renewable energy; artificial intelligence
‘We are creating UK Research and Innovation, which will invest around
£8bn per annum by 2020 in the highest-quality research and innovation across the UK.’
To support UK priorities in key areas of innovation we will invest a further
£725m in the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund over the next four
years. We are announcing six Industrial Strategy Challenges in Wave 2 aligned with our Grand Challenges and Sector Deals and two Pioneer Challenges to build industry engagement and readiness for future funding.







73


Clean Growth



Clean Growth

	
` Transforming construction, up	` Prospering from the energy
to £170m* – The way we create	revolution* – Around 80 per cent of our buildings has not changed	global energy use still comes from substantially in 40 years and	fossil fuels56 . To preserve a safe and needs a drastic overhaul if it is to	stable climate, this has to change deliver the buildings that the UK	fast. Countries all over the world needs. Construction is currently	are moving to renewable energy, expensive and too many buildings	with investment more than doubling waste energy. We need to transform	over the last decade57. But for the construction so that we can create	majority of our energy to be clean affordable places to live and work	and affordable, we need much more that are, safer, healthier and use	intelligent systems. Smart systems less energy. By taking a lead in the	can link energy supply, storage and UK, we can increase our ability to	use, and join up power, heating and export. Global demand for efficient	transport to increase efficiency buildings is rising rapidly, driven	dramatically. By developing these by the pressures of urbanisation,	world-leading systems in the UK, affordability, and the need to	we can cut bills while creating
cut emissions.	high value jobs for the future.

* All wave 2 programmes are subject to final business case when further details on funding will be made available.



74





Clean Growth



‘Smart systems can link energy supply, storage and use, and join up power, heating and transport to increase efficiency dramatically.’




` Transforming food production* – The world will need 60 per cent more food by 2050 to allow us to feed 9 billion people, while demand for water is expected to rise by 20 per cent in the
agriculture sector alone58. For this to be possible, the way we produce
our food needs to be significantly more efficient and sustainable.
 
` By using precision technologies we can make that a reality: transform food production whilst reducing emissions, pollution, waste and soil erosion. By putting the UK at the forefront of this
global revolution in farming, we will deliver benefits to farmers, the environment and consumers whilst driving growth, jobs
and exports.

















75


AI and data

	

` Audience of the future, up to	` Next generation services, up
£33m*– Immersive technologies	to £20m*– Services account such as virtual, augmented and	for almost 80 per cent of the UK mixed reality are changing how we	economy60. As technologies like experience the world around us –	artificial intelligence and data from entertainment and art to shops	analytics become ubiquitous, we and classrooms. The challenge	need to ensure UK service sectors is to bring creative businesses,	are primed. Pioneer funding will researchers and technologists	help service industries to identify together to create striking new	how the application of these experiences that are accessible to	technologies can transform their the general public. This can create	operations. This will help to set UK the next generation of products,	service industries at the forefront
services and experiences that will	of developing and using innovation. capture the world’s attention and
position the UK as the global leader in immersive technologies.
















76

Ageing Society












` Data to early diagnosis and precision medicine, up to £210m* – There are fatal diseases that take years to develop before they present symptoms. Developing effective treatments – such as for pancreatic cancer which develops on average 14 years before symptoms present - becomes progressively harder. The challenge is to combine the wealth
of data created by UK researchers with real world evidence from our health service. That will allow industry to
create new products and services that will diagnose diseases earlier and help clinicians choose the best treatment for individual patients. This will save lives and set the UK
at the forefront of a growing global market in diagnostics.
 ` Healthy ageing* – By 2040, one in eight people in the UK will be aged over 75 – an increase from one in 12 today59. Staying active, productive and
‘Services account for almost 80 per cent of the UK economy. As technologies like artificial intelligence and data analytics become ubiquitous, we need to ensure service sectors are primed.’
people. The challenge is to innovate, so older people’s aspirations are
met and so better, more effective care supports an independent lifestyle as they age. By working together, the government and industry can address the challenges of ageing whilst capturing a growing global market.




77






























UK Space Agency is studying how machines can support humans to make the exploration of the universe more efficient





We will invest in pioneer funding for quantum technologies, up to £20m*, recognising the impact this could
have across a number of challenge areas. A new set of products from medical devices to sensors and safer communication systems may be possible using the emerging physical science known as quantum technology. The potential is huge but still largely in the lab environment. Pioneer funding will bring new disruptive businesses together with existing businesses
to understand how this emerging technology can be turned into products that will underpin industry in the future.
 
We will run a third wave of Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund programmes, with UK Research and Innovation launching an expression of interest
for potential challenges next year.
Alongside the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, we are also improving the incentives, processes and skills that support the flow of knowledge and ideas around society and, building on the Dowling Review61, increase opportunities for research commercialisation. Universities work
with businesses in many different ways to exchange ideas – from licensing

Industrial Strategy White Paper


78







intellectual property and creating spin-outs to collaborative R&D, contract research and consultancy. To capture this diversity fully we are asking UK Research and Innovation to develop a new Knowledge Exchange Framework. This framework will benchmark how well universities are
doing at fostering knowledge sharing and research commercialisation. It will
sit alongside the Research Excellence Framework and the Teaching Excellence and Student Outcomes Framework, providing
a holistic view of how universities are delivering their threefold mission
of generating knowledge through research, transmitting knowledge through teaching, and translating knowledge into practical uses through knowledge exchange.
The development of the Knowledge Exchange Framework will build on the work of the McMillan Review62, and will capture the rich network of collaborations between
universities and businesses. In parallel the higher education funding bodies are changing the incentives and rewards for capturing
 the value of research by increasing significantly the importance of ‘impact’ in the Research Excellence Framework (REF), raising it from 20 per cent to 25 per cent in the next assessment round.
‘We are also improving the incentives, processes and skills that support the flow of knowledge and ideas around society.’
the improvements in university practices and commercialisation outcomes in recent years. The research also suggests that university technology transfer
offices sometimes lack the resources and skills to fully develop commercialisation opportunities, particularly in institutions that have historically undertaken less of this activity. We will increase funding that supports universities and businesses working together to innovate and commercialise research. Key to this is the Higher Education Innovation Funding (HEIF) in England, which enables universities to engage with businesses
and improve the commercial skills of their staff. HEIF
has deepened universities’ relationships with business.63





79


Universities earn £1.1bn from their collaborations with business
Income of higher education institutions from knowledge exchange activities with businesses
£163 million	£507 million
IP income	Contract research
licenses & sale of shares	Fundamental or applied in spin-outs		research to meet
the specific needs of
£149 million	external partners
Continuing professional development and continuing education

£123 million	                  Facilities & equipment
related services	£196 million
e. g. equipment sharing
Consultancy Work and advice for clients, but without the creating of new knowledge

Source: HESA (2017) “Higher Education Business and Community Interaction Survey 2015/16”.
*Includes both publicly and non-publicly funded higher education institutions


University patents, licence income and industrial collaboration are increasing64, and there is scope – and demand
from business – to do more. We have announced an increase of £40m a year to HEIF and will now commit to reaching a total of £250m a year by 2020-21, as recommended in the Witty Review65. The increased support will align with the needs of the Industrial Strategy and will result in
consequential funding for the devolved administrations. We expect universities to continue to use HEIF to help
 address the needs of local innovative businesses and contribute to regional development, including collaboration with their Local Enterprise Partnership.
The UK has a range of public research organisations that bridge the gap between business, academia and
the public sector, bringing together the best people in their fields to work side-by-side on later-stage research and development and transform high potential ideas into new products and services.





80

Higher Education Innovation Funding


Higher Education Innovation Funding (HEIF) supports knowledge-based interactions between universities and colleges and the wider world.
Universities use HEIF to respond to business needs and to local opportunities. Recent examples include:
` HEIF is supporting the University of Central Lancashire’s Centre for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, which is delivering almost
£10m worth of business support projects and is set to reach almost 1,000 SMEs in the region;
` The Royal College of Art is using HEIF to support its InnovationRCA programme, which has incubated and spun-out 39 start-ups, employing over 500 people, over the last nine years;
` The University of Huddersfield is working with partners, including the Leeds City Region Local Enterprise Partnership,
 to increase productivity and economic growth - including by using HEIF to establish a business engagement and support facility at the University’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre;
‘The UK has a range of public research organisations that [bring] together the best people in their fields to work side- by-side on later-stage research.’
Imperial’s expertise. It will run a proof of concept fund to help researchers advance projects
with clear translation potential; and
` The Connecting Capability Fund is supporting groups of universities to work together to meet a range of business needs. The first round of funding has supported: productivity- building in the east of England; helping SMEs
to scale up in the south of England; developing an investment fund for university spin-outs in the north of England; and developing new therapies for age-related diseases.






81



Through the work of Innovate UK, the government has expanded this part of the innovation ecosystem, establishing a network of ‘Catapult centres’ to commercialise new
and emerging technologies.
An independent review of the Catapult network66 has recently concluded.
It sets out that Catapults are an important and successful part of the UK’s innovation ecosystem, and that they can drive innovation and economic benefit in the UK. As well as highlighting the success of the best-performers, the review has also found that improvements should be made to the network to increase its performance and economic impact. The High-Value Manufacturing
Catapult is a particular success story. Since inception in 2012 it has tripled the impact of government spending
– generating £655m of additional income from industry by working with over 3,000 businesses every year to bring new technology to market.
 It has established a strong track record of helping UK manufacturing businesses of all sizes connect better with their customers and supply chains and boost their competitiveness by applying
new technologies that enable faster and cheaper production of products and components. Its work is not only anchoring production in the UK, it is also helping to re-shore manufacturing lost to other countries and winning the high value inward investment projects that create jobs and local growth.
We want Catapults to play a growing role in UK innovation. We will use this review to improve the strategies, governance and performance management of Catapults, and to agree long-term funding for them
to ensure they can deliver better outcomes for the Industrial Strategy. We will be putting in place £178m of interim funding to allow them to continue their work and will agree long-term funding for the network early next year. For those
Catapults where most improvement is needed, we will ask UK Research and Innovation to run a 12-week process to develop their plans.


















82

A technician trialling a new access system for offshore wind turbines on the 7MW Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult Levenmouth Demonstration Turbine, Scotland


‘Our High Value Manufacturing Catapult has established a strong track record of helping UK
businesses of all sizes connect better with their customers and supply chains.’



Case Study: Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult supporting innovation in offshore wind energy


The Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult is supporting Edinburgh- based small business ACT Blade to develop
an entirely new form of offshore wind blade, based around its highly advanced and proven sail-rig technology.
Using UK expertise in composites and high- tech textiles, ACT Blade’s innovative lighter and
 longer design is currently being tested at the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult’s test centre at Blyth.
The design has the potential to not only reduce the cost of energy and extend the lifetime
of the UK’s onshore wind fleet, but also establish novel manufacturing processes in the UK.








83






























The iconic Rocket Tower at the National Space Centre in Leicester is home to Blue Streak and Thor Able rockets

As evidenced above, innovation is a highly collaborative activity. It flourishes in clusters and through networks.

Our universities and colleges are central to world-class innovation clusters.
Research clusters from Cambridge to Glasgow attract inward investment from businesses looking to access knowledge and talent, bringing a positive impact
to the wider local economy in terms of jobs and infrastructure investment. We are fortunate that our leading research-intensive universities are spread across the country. There are substantial established and emerging research clusters across the UK – such as life sciences in the north west and Cambridge’s Laboratory of Molecular Biology67, environmental sciences in
 Exeter with the combined research strengths of the university and the Met Office, and Loughborough University’s science and enterprise park68. There are other universities with distinctive research strengths – Leicester for space, the University of East Anglia
for agri-science, Abertay for video games, and precision optics at Glyndwr. There is potential for these and other excellent universities to develop and scale up local innovation clusters
which will deliver local growth.
Evidence shows that innovation drives productivity and that interventions work

Industrial Strategy White Paper


84







best where they support existing strengths and collaborations69. Building on the Science and Innovation Audits70, we are launching a new competitive £115m Strength in Places Fund to support areas to build
on their science and innovation strengths and develop stronger local networks. The fund will support collaborative programmes based on research and innovation excellence in places right across the UK which can demonstrate a strong impact on local productivity and enhance collaboration between universities, research organisations,
businesses, local government and Local Enterprise Partnerships in England
and relevant agencies in the devolved nations.
The fund will identify and support areas of emerging R&D strength that are driving business clusters and it will build on the regional economic impact of existing institutions including universities, research institutes, Innovation and Knowledge Centres and Catapults and will link to Local Industrial Strategies.
This will be delivered
 through UK Research and Innovation as a competitive fund for collaborative bids. The government and UK Research and Innovation will evaluate these in 2021 to see how they are working and consider further scaling up.
‘We are launching a new competitive
£115m Strength in Places Fund to
support areas to build on their science and innovation strengths and develop stronger local networks.’
laboratories in the world – from the National Physical Laboratory, which helps to set global measurement standards that support trade and innovation, to the UK Met Office with its world-renowned climate and weather modelling examining  climate change
and our resilience to extreme weather events. In our Green paper we committed to reviewing whether there is more that can be done to leverage such laboratories to drive local productivity.
Following the review,  led by Professor Dame Julia Goodfellow, we are setting an expectation of all labs in receipt of significant public funding to support local economic growth.
The review identified several gaps to building sustained partnerships between labs and local businesses and
we will explore mechanisms to overcome these.






85



Industrial Strategy White Paper

Science & Innovation Audit Themes


1
Digital technology and Data-Driven Innovation
2
High value manufacturing
3
Health Innovation and Advanced Materials
4
Advanced Manufacturing; Digital Technologies and Data; and Systems Integration
5
6
7
Agri-tech and industrial biotechnology
8
Life sciences and agri-tech
9
Digital enabling technologies
10
Medical technology
11
Infection; Materials Chemistry; and High Performance Computing
12
 Oxfordshire Transformative Technologies
13
14
Cybersecurity
15
16
New nuclear technology
17
eco-innovation
18
19
Medical
20
Steel innovation; smart manufacturing; health informatics; and agri-tech
21
Space infrastructure and technology
22
Precision medicine
23
Digital capability
24
25
Biomedical; heritage; digital publishing; and data science

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































86

86











‘Science and Innovation Audits help local
organisations map their research and innovation strengths,
15	and identify
areas of potential
global competitive advantage.’



22	6	1	12

23
18
21
17
16	3	10	7
11	19	2



4	21
14
20	13
5	9
 8

21

24 25

21





87




























The first major project of the UK-US Science and Technology Agreement is UK investment in the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility and Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment

Research and innovation are global endeavours and talented and experienced people in these fields are internationally mobile.

Businesses have talent scouts around the world to spot opportunities in the most creative clusters, and investment tends to follow talent. The UK has
the second largest bilateral flow of scientists71 and we want the UK to be a magnet for world-class talent. We will increase the number of scientists working in the UK and enable leading
scientists from around the world to work here. We will continue to recruit and retain the best talent and ensure the
UK remains a world-leader in science and innovation through our Rutherford Fund. The Fund is investing £118m over four years (from 2017/18) in fellowships for early-career to senior researchers.
 We have doubled the number of available visas in the Tier 1 (Exceptional Talent) route available to those who are already recognised as global leaders or who show considerable promise in their fields. This recognises the importance of supporting those working in the digital technology, science, arts and creative sectors, and ensures that the UK can continue to welcome international talent to work in these key emerging and innovative industries. The government is also changing immigration rules to enable
world-leading scientists and researchers endorsed under the Tier 1 route to apply for settlement after three years

Industrial Strategy White Paper



88







and to make it quicker for highly-skilled students to apply to work in the UK after finishing their degrees. We are relaxing the labour market test to allow UK
Research and Innovation and other select organisations
to sponsor researchers, making it easier to hire international researchers and members of established research teams. The National Academies are considering how they can encourage
top global research talent to come to the UK through
the Research and Innovation Talent scheme within Tier
1 of the visa system.
We also want the UK to be the partner of choice for science and innovation.
Approximately one in five businesses are engaged in collaboration72. Global collaborations are crucial in meeting the Grand
Challenges. We will launch a new International Research and Innovation Strategy in early 2018 in partnership with UK Research and Innovation and a £110m fund for International Collaborations to enhance the UK’s excellence in research and innovation through global engagement.
 This will be complementary to the existing Official Development Assistance budget, which supports projects that benefit developing countries. We have already strengthened key partnerships
‘The UK has the second largest bilateral flow of scientists and we want the UK to be a magnet for world- class talent.’
` the first formal science and technology agreement with the United States, signed
in September, with a UK contribution worth £65m to collaborate on projects exploring some of the most important questions in science and advance our understanding of
the origin and structure of the universe; and
` replicating this model with other countries
– for example, we are developing a joint Science, Technology and Innovation Strategy with China to expand and deepen our collaboration.
Through programmes like the Newton-Bhabha Funds, and the UK India Education Research Initiative, we continue to build and sustain the UK’s science, research and innovation partnership with India.







89






























The Square Kilometre Array links Jodrell Bank in Cheshire with a network of radio telescopes in South Africa and Australia




The UK will also take on the annual chairmanship of the EUREKA intergovernmental organisation in July 2018, which will enable us to guide the strategic direction of the organisation to enhance further our global presence. EUREKA helps SMEs across Europe and globally to collaborate on bringing innovative ideas to market.
Our research collaboration is supported by our substantial commitment to developing countries, and by our leadership of wider global initiatives. We can develop shared research programmes around a
global challenge and also use shared
 infrastructure. This is exemplified by our leading role in the Square Kilometre Array, linking Jodrell Bank in Cheshire with a network of radio telescopes in South Africa and Australia. It will handle a flow of data greater than the current flow of all data across the internet and provides important opportunities for commercial development. Similarly, our leading position in Mission Innovation – a 23-country partnership to accelerate clean energy innovation by doubling investment in targeted research
and development – brings together our commitments to clean growth, raising investment in research and development, and global engagement.

Industrial Strategy White Paper


90







Some of our closest relationships and collaborations are with EU member states. The UK has already worked collaboratively with our partners to shape the EU Research and Innovation Framework programmes, which are based on
excellence and global impact and aim to accelerate the exchange of ideas, talent and getting innovation
to market. EU and UK businesses and universities have collaborated on a range of projects, from faster Ebola testing and cleaning up industrial processes to the use of solar power. The UK is a leader in attracting and retaining the best
global researchers.
Through the EU Horizon 2020 we have received 20 per cent of all awarded
European Research Council (ERC) grants73; we are a ‘top five’ collaboration partner for all member states in the Horizon 2020 programme74; and we have attracted €3.6bn to date for our innovative businesses and universities.75 The UK has signalled its desire to seek a far-reaching science and innovation agreement with the EU that establishes a framework for future
 cooperation. We would welcome the chance to discuss possible options for our future involvement in the EU framework programmes as part of this agreement. The UK wants to continue to take part in those specific policies and programmes which are greatly to the UK and the
‘Our leading position in Mission Innovation... brings together our commitments to clean growth, raising investment in research and development and
global engagement.’
Higher education is devolved to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The devolved administrations and their agencies have a close relationship with the institutions in each nation and deep knowledge of
the many opportunities for international collaboration within them. We want to work with the devolved nations – governments and institutions both – in seizing opportunities to collaborate internationally.





91

Industrial Strategy White Paper



People














































92

As the economy adapts to the future, we will aim for everyone to access and enjoy good work































93

Industrial Strategy White Paper
People

To generate good jobs and greater earning power for all.

Key policies include:
But we still face challenges in meeting our business needs for talent, skills and labour. In the past, we have given insufficient attention to technical education. We do not have enough people skilled in science, technology, engineering and maths.
We need to narrow disparities between communities in skills and education and remove barriers faced by workers from under-represented groups in realising their potential.
We will ensure that everyone can improve their skills throughout their lives, increasing their earning power and opportunities for better jobs. We will equip citizens for jobs shaped by next generation technology. As the economy adapts, we want everyone to access and enjoy good work.
 We will put technical education on the same footing as our academic system, with apprenticeships and qualifications such as T levels. We will continue to support teaching in our schools, flexible career learning and other measures
to transform people’s life chances.




` Establish a technical education system that rivals the best in the world, to stand
alongside our world-class higher education system;
` Invest an additional £406m in maths, digital and technical education, helping to address the shortage of science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) skills
` Create a new National Retraining Scheme that supports people to re-skill, beginning with a £64m investment for digital
and construction training

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































94






94









We recognise that people, and the skills they have, are a key driver of productivity. Having the
right skills increases people’s earning power. Investing
in our people across their lifetimes is fundamental to our shared success, from strong foundations for children and young people in schools and relevant, high quality education and training in our further and higher education systems to career-long learning and enabling employers to invest in their workforce.
As our Industrial Strategy Green Paper set out, we are building on significant
strengths and improvements in our education system
in England. We have an additional 1.8 million children in good and outstanding schools compared to 201077. It has been estimated that half of all UK 17 year olds will participate in higher
education by the age of 3078. We are involving employers ever more closely in the education system, and we are committed to delivering three million apprenticeship starts by 2020.
 We have a world-class higher education system that remains the second most popular destination for study by overseas students after the United States79.

3 million
‘We will create a country where everyone can improve their skills at all stages of their lives, to boost their earning power and the opportunity for better jobs.’
by 2020

We have an effective labour market too. British businesses are good at creating jobs – our flexible
labour market makes it easy for people to participate in the workforce in a way that fits with their preferences and circumstances and meet the needs of our businesses and the economy. We are increasing the rates of labour market participation among under-represented groups80 and the gender pay gap is now at a record low for people working full- time81. Partly as a result of its flexibility, Britain’s labour
market has performed well in the decade since the financial crash, and our employment is at a near historic high
rate of 75 per cent82.




95

Industrial Strategy White Paper
















We are reforming functional skills qualifications to improve their quality and levels of employer recognition. Image: Automotive manufacturing at the Advanced Propulsion Centre in Coventry
Percentage





















































2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
EU28
OECD
G7
UK
74%

72%

70%

68%

66%

64%

62%

60%
Employment rate 2005-2016
The UK’s employment performance compared to other countries

96







Time and again, businesses choose to locate in the
UK rather than elsewhere because of the flexible labour market and the fact that we have many well educated and trained workers.
` As well as strengths, we have important challenges. Firstly, we need to improve the
quality and reputation of our technical education. For too long, technical education has not had the prestige that it has enjoyed in other countries. The system can be complex and confusing, not always meeting the needs of individuals or those of employers and the wider economy. The existence of domestic skills shortages has meant that migrant labour has been required to help plug the gap83.
` Secondly, we need to tackle particular
shortages of STEM skills. These skills are important for a range of industries from manufacturing to
the arts. The number of STEM undergraduates has been increasing over the last few years84, but there remains unmet demand from employers85. 40
per cent of employers
 reported a shortage of STEM graduates as being a key barrier in recruiting appropriate
‘Time and again, businesses choose to locate in the
UK rather than elsewhere because of the flexible labour market and the fact that we have many well educated and trained workers.’
We know, too, that the pipeline of students studying STEM-related courses narrows as it reaches higher levels. Of the 16 year olds who have achieved an A*-C grade in GCSE maths, fewer
than a quarter continue to study maths after age 1689.
Although there has been a 20 per cent increase in entries to maths A levels since 201090, less than a third of students studying
STEM related A levels go on to gain a STEM degree, and a significant proportion of STEM graduates do not go into STEM occupations91.





97




























Will we create a country where everyone can improve their skills at all stages of their lives





There is also significant regional variation in uptake of STEM subjects, including maths. In Reading in
2016, 57 per cent of students who achieved A*-C at 15 went on to study maths at level 3; in Barnsley it was 10 per cent92. And we know girls are less likely to choose STEM subjects than their male counterparts93.
` Thirdly, we need to tackle entrenched regional disparities in education and skill levels. According to research by the Confederation
of British Industry, disparities in education and skills are the biggest drivers of regional variation in productivity94. Regional education
 
outcomes vary at every phase. For example, 73 per cent of children in early years learning in the south east of England meet the expected standard across early learning goals, compared to only 66 per cent in
the West Midlands and north west of England95. Almost 90 per cent of
London’s secondary schools are good or outstanding, compared to just 67 per cent of schools in the north east of England96. The entry rates to higher education for 18 year olds are 40
per cent in London, but only 29 per cent in the north east of England97.

Industrial Strategy White Paper



98







` Fourthly, we need to ensure that everyone, no matter what their background or level of skill, has an opportunity
to enter into and progress at work and through the education and training system. Barriers that prevent under-represented groups from realising
their full potential need to be broken down. For example, women, who account for just under half of all employees in the UK, are more likely to be in ‘low-paid, low- skilled’ work98. And as technological change
transforms the jobs and the skills that our businesses require, we need to make sure that people have
the opportunity to learn and train throughout their working lives. At the moment, our problem
is not unemployment caused by technology, it is low earning power caused by, among other reasons, a failure to use
technology. Through our Industrial Strategy, we are determined to ensure that we have both the
 skills to take advantage of new technologies and the means to help those who are affected by technological change.

20%
increase in entries to
maths A levels since 2010


‘We are determined to ensure that we have both the skills to take advantage of new technologies and the means
to help people who are affected by technological change.’
These groups will need to work together to create opportunities for people to pursue higher earnings over the longer term and support the growth of a high-wage, high-skilled economy.










99




Our approach

We start by building on our strengths. The UK has one of the most accomplished higher education systems in the world.

Higher education plays a significant role in bringing benefits for the UK economy, particularly in the provision of higher-level skills that are needed by employers both nationally and within local areas. There are many examples of higher education institutions
and local employers collaborating to target specific skills needs99.
These businesses are involved in co- development of curricula and providing
 real-life projects and resources to help students understand the practical relevance of their courses. Employers value the skills of graduates100 and data continues to show the benefit
of a higher education qualification (equating to more than £100,000 on average over the course of a person’s working life, up to £170,000 for a man and £250,000 for a woman101).





We will create 15 new technical education routes designed through rigorous labour market analysis and in partnership with employers



















100






In the run-up to the financial crisis, the up-skilling of the UK’s workforce accounted for around 20 per cent of total labour productivity growth102. Research predicts around 1.8 million new jobs will be created between 2014 and 2024, and 70 per cent of them will be in the occupations most likely
to employ graduates103.
To ensure that higher education is responsive to employer and industry needs – and to students’ employment expectations
	•	the Higher Education and Research Act, passed earlier this year, will put in place a modern regulatory framework through the
creation of a new regulator, the Office for Students (OfS). The OfS, which will be established in January 2018, will address employer and student needs and expectations in the short, medium and long term
	•	considering the skills gaps that exist today, and anticipating the demands of the future economy.
It will make the sector more dynamic and make it
 easier for new, high quality providers to offer higher education. By encouraging innovation and a focus on student outcomes, the OfS will drive improvements in productivity and support the wider economic needs of the country. This will increase the number of work-ready graduates, including in STEM, and promote innovative ways of learning, such as that being delivered by
‘Around 1.8 million new jobs will be created between 2014 and 2024,
and 70 per cent of them will be in the occupations most likely to employ graduates.‘
Furthermore, our commitment to conducting a major review of funding across tertiary education will ensure a joined-up system that works for everyone.
Education and training are devolved to Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland. While our approach on these issues applies to England, this is a shared priority among all nations of the United Kingdom.





101


Delivering a world-class technical education system

Technical excellence has historically not been valued as highly as academic success and standards have been lower.
We want our technical education

system to be as prestigious as higher education in this country, and for it to rival the best systems in the world. We are undertaking a major programme of reform based on the findings of
the independent panel led by Lord Sainsbury104. In the Skills Plan105 we
 Over £500m
annual backing for new T levels


Training hours for

committed to creating 15 new technical education routes, designed through rigorous labour market analysis
and in partnership with employers. Apprenticeships and new T levels
 16-19 year-old T level students to increase by over
 50%

will be based on the same set of high standards for occupational competency, designed by employers, and students will have opportunities to move between academic and technical routes.
New T levels will be backed by over
£500m annually by the time the programme is rolled out fully. This will ensure we can increase by over 50 per cent the number of hours training for 16-19 year-old T level students, including a high-quality work placement – putting our technical education system on
a par with the best in the world. We will also update school and college performance measures to ensure that students can make an informed
choice between technical or academic education in time for the introduction of the first T levels, recognising
them as equally valued routes.
 We have recently published our T level action plan, setting out the implementation timetable and announcing the first T levels to be
taught from 2020 (digital, construction and education and childcare)106. The plan also sets out the vital role that employers will play in the reforms:
we have convened T level Panels (made up of employers, industry professionals and education experts) across the six routes for delivery in 2020 and 2021, and further panels will be convened across the remaining five T level routes for delivery in 2022.






102





We will also invest up to
£20m between 2018/19 and 2019/20 to help further education colleges develop the skills of their staff to deliver the new technical qualifications. We will also host a major Skills Summit with leading employers and
publish a public consultation on the detailed design and delivery of T levels before the end of the year.
We have already announced government support for the creation of new Institutes of Technology. These institutes will increase the provision of higher-level technical
education across the country and we will launch a call for proposals to establish the first of these shortly. The institutes will sit alongside our four flagship employer- led National Colleges, which are delivering high-quality skills training for the digital, creative, nuclear and
high speed rail sectors.
 To ensure there is excellent quality provision for those progressing from the new T levels and other full-time education, and for those
‘We want our technical education system to be as prestigious as higher education in this country, and for it to rival the best systems in the world.’
This review will consider the supply of, and demand for, quality higher-level classroom-based technical education, responding to the recommendations of Lord Sainsbury’s review.














103


Driving up the study of maths

Sir Adrian Smith’s review of maths education for 16-18 year olds in England, published in July, found a strong demand for mathematical and quantitative skills in the labour market
at all levels107.

It also identified a consistent under- supply reflecting the low take up
of maths among 16-18 year olds in England, and low achievement
relative to other developed countries. It set out a strong case for raising participation and improving both basic and advanced maths skills: adults with
basic numeracy skills earn higher wages and are more likely to be employed than those who fail to master basic quantitative skills. Higher levels of achievement in maths are associated with higher earnings for individuals
and higher productivity. Strong quantitative skills are increasingly important as an underpinning for all forms of STEM study, but also for highly-skilled employment outside core STEM disciplines. As the Smith review points out, learned societies argue that students across the sciences, social sciences and
humanities need significant quantitative skills, and these should be a central component of their education.
Maths should not be perceived as an exceptional talent; it is a basic skill that can be mastered with the right teaching and approach, as shown by OECD evidence from
successful models such as Singapore, Switzerland and Denmark108.
 Improving the take up of maths qualifications and the quality of maths teaching across the education system is one of the
most significant interventions that government can make to tackle STEM skills shortages and secure wider benefits for the economy109.
Demand is clearly growing. For example, the UK’s world-class creative industries, which cover film, TV and video games, are growing at twice the rate of the economy as a whole and are heavily reliant on STEM skills110.
We have already taken some early actions in response to the Smith Review. This includes a level 3 Maths Support Programme, which will build on the momentum created by the Further Maths and Core Maths
Support Programmes, and work with schools and colleges to improve maths education by sharing best practice and working to increase participation and attainment in maths among 16-
18 year olds. The programme will work to deliver focused intervention targeted to those who need it most.





104





We are also focused on expanding the capacity for maths teaching. We offer generous financial incentives for those training to teach priority subjects such as maths, and last year we trained more maths teachers than in any of the previous four years. To incentivise recruitment to initial teacher training and ensure we retain as many teachers as possible, we are piloting new style bursaries in maths.
Around 30 per cent of young people do not currently achieve a GCSE standard pass aged 16, and of these, only around 17.5 per cent achieve a good standard
of maths by the age of 19111. In these crucial years, the basic maths gap widens compared to high performing countries112. England remains unusual among advanced countries in that the study
of maths is  not  universal for all students beyond 16113. To tackle this, we will test innovative approaches to
improve outcomes in basic maths for those aged 16 and over, through a
£8.5m pilot.
 
We will also invest £40m to establish Further Education Centres
of Excellence across the country to build teaching capacity and spread best practice.
We are also reforming functional skills qualifications to improve their quality
‘Adults with basic numeracy skills earn higher wages and are more likely to be employed than those who fail to master basic quantitative skills.’
We are seeing growth in the new core maths
qualifications introduced in 2014, which are designed to prepare students for the mathematical demands of
university study, employment and life. These have been endorsed by a large number of universities, including many in the Russell Group114. We have funded 145 early adopter schools and
colleges to begin teaching the new qualifications.







105


























We offer generous financial incentives for those training to teach priority subjects such as maths, and last year we trained more maths teachers than in any of the previous four years




There were almost 3,000 entries in the first year (2016)115, and this grew to 5,361 entries in 2017116. To deepen the understanding of the gender disparity in STEM subject choices
at ages 16 to 19, we will explore how to improve the accessibility and transparency of data published on STEM, by institution and subject.
We need to go further on maths. Building on Sir Adrian Smith’s recommendation to make core maths available to all students on level 3 pathways, we will incentivise
education institutions to offer maths by providing a £600 premium to existing per pupil funding rates for each additional student who takes
 maths or further maths at AS/A level or core maths. This will
help education providers to support more students aged 16 and over to study maths.
We also recognise that universities are an important influence on students’ choices. In response to Sir Adrian Smith’s recommendations, we are working with institutions such as
the Royal Society and the British Academy to encourage universities and employers to signal the value of level 3 maths qualifications for entry to undergraduate courses that have a significant quantitative element, and the value for a wide range of job roles. These investments will begin to meet

Industrial Strategy White Paper


106

the demand for coveted STEM skills, as well as close the advanced maths gap that exists between our education system and the best in
other developed countries.
This ambition must also be built on a foundation of good basic maths skills. A good level of numeracy supports the achievement of further qualifications, contributing to better employment, higher wages and further opportunities to up-skill117.
Getting more young people to this level also widens the pool of students capable of studying advanced maths and other STEM subjects. However, our basic maths performance is middling118; and regional variations mean that some parts of the country have fallen behind119, contributing to lower productivity. We need to boost the number of people reaching a good standard by the end of compulsory education to strengthen
our economy, widen prosperity, and compete with the top international education systems.
We will take action to ensure that more students leave education at age 18 with a basic level of numeracy – both to build the pipeline of
 students who are able to go on to higher levels of STEM study, and because basic maths skills have a proven value in their own right. The
£42m Teaching for Mastery maths programme is being received positively120 and will reach half of all primary schools by 2020. We are delivering this through a network of 35 maths hubs,
‘We need to boost the number of people reaching a good standard by the
end of compulsory education to strengthen our economy, widen prosperity and compete with the top international education systems.’
£6m to put maths hubs in areas of need. We will now invest £27m in the further expansion of Teaching for Mastery maths programme to reach 11,000 primary and secondary schools
in total by 2023.
We will work with top maths universities to expand the specialist maths school model pioneered by Exeter University and King’s College London. We are providing
£350,000 annual funding for every maths school to deliver the specialist maths school model, including extensive outreach work with schools and teachers
to ensure all students have the chance to achieve their mathematical potential.





107















The New Model in Technology & Engineering in Hereford aims to become the first new ‘greenfield’ university in the UK for 30 years
Case Study: The New Model in Technology & Engineering
In October, the government	engineers, including the target of a announced up to £15m in funding	50/50 gender split and recruiting for a new engineering university	graduates from non-traditional
in Hereford. The New Model	backgrounds. It will also offer in Technology & Engineering	accelerated degrees, meaning
(NMiTE) aims to become the first	students can graduate in two years. new ‘greenfield’ university in the	Courses will be co-created with
UK for 30 years, addressing the	employers, with mandatory work growing need for engineering	placements of 6-12 months talent in sectors such as advanced	before graduation.
manufacturing, artificial intelligence	NMiTE will take its first cohort and cybersecurity.	of students in September 2020,
NMiTE is taking a radical approach	with development cohorts in to training the next generation of	2018 and 2019.













108

Driving up digital skills

Alongside this comprehensive programme to support the study of maths, the government will work to boost the supply of digital skills across the economy.

Digital skills are vital for both STEM and non-STEM specific jobs, with demand growing. This is evidenced by Tech City UK research, which shows that highly skilled and highly paid digital
jobs grew at twice the rate of non-digital jobs between 2011 and 2015121. We will introduce a new entitlement for adults who lack core digital skills to access specified basic digital skills training free of charge. This will mirror the approach taken for adult literacy and numeracy training. As set out in our Digital Strategy122, we intend that everyone has the opportunity to increase their digital capability.
We are already taking action on a number of fronts, from the introduction of the first digital T level (as one of
the first of the technical education pathways in September 2020) to the development of digital apprenticeships, including degree apprenticeships.
 The new standards across all 15 routes are designed by industry, enabling businesses to reflect the knowledge and skills they need, such as digital skills.
‘Highly skilled and highly paid digital jobs grew at twice the rate of non-digital jobs between 2011
and 2015.’
focusing on ways to increase the number of students who undertake work experience to develop their professional skills and ways of accrediting work experience in degrees. To bring together real- world cyber expertise and educational experience we have announced the launch of a new £20m Cyber Discovery programme – a four-year study programme for the next generation of cybersecurity professionals. We expect the programme to reach nearly 6,000 participants by 2021.







109



But we need to go further. In 2014 we broke new ground by introducing a new, more rigorous computing curriculum in England for pupils aged 5-16, including coding and the basics of programming. However, some teachers find it challenging to deliver this new curriculum, and that this is
limiting the number of students taking computer science qualifications and the quality of teaching they receive124. The government will invest £84m over the next five years to deliver
a comprehensive programme to improve the teaching of computing and drive up participation in computer science, with a particular focus on girls. Measures include
up-skilling 8,000 computer science teachers - enough for one in every
 secondary school - and working with industry to set up a new National Centre for Computing Education to produce training material and support schools.
We are also investing £20m in a new Institute of Coding, which will be formed through a consortium of universities and employers. The new institute will sit alongside Ada, the National College for Digital Skills, and work with employers and businesses to deliver higher level digital skills. New digital platforms will expand the reach of STEM Ambassador and CREST Awards programmes to increase young people’s engagement with STEM subjects. A new digital platform for the CREST Awards will help double the number of students taking part in CREST Awards across the UK

110

We have recently announced a new £20 million Cyber Discovery programme – a four-year study programme for the next generation of cybersecurity professionals

from 30,000 to 60,000 by March 2019, with a particular focus on reaching groups that are currently under- represented in STEM.
We will target immediate shortages in digital skills, giving individuals the skills they need to progress in work through the new National Retraining Scheme, set out later in this chapter.
 This range of interventions
	•	spanning primary, secondary and tertiary education, and addressing basic, intermediate and higher levels of study – will achieve a big expansion in the depth and breadth of our workforce’s STEM skills.






Case Study: 2018 Year of Engineering


The Year of Engineering is a government-led campaign that will bring the world of engineering directly to children and young people. It will celebrate the UK’s proud engineering heritage and seek to ensure we have the skilled engineering workforce we need for tomorrow. It will raise the profile of engineering and alter perceptions of what it is to be an engineer today, working across
a range of key areas in construction, transport, chemicals, biomedical and the software industry.
 We are working with hundreds of organisations from the industry, who have signed up to lead exciting events and activities to inspire
‘We will target immediate shortages in digital skills, giving individuals the skills they need to progress in work through
the new National Retraining Scheme.’






111


Investing in skills to support growth and opportunity across the country

Tackling regional differences in skills and educational attainment is vital if we are to boost earning power across the whole country.

In England, the government has three roles to play.
Firstly, to ensure that the national system works across the country, making a real difference in areas of most need. Our investment in technical education and T levels, for example, will have the greatest impact in
areas where more students go on to technical than academic education.
Secondly, to address the specific needs of local areas through additional action, such as our Opportunity
 Areas programme and our targeted establishment of new maths hubs in under-achieving areas. These recognise that different areas and regions often face particular challenges, as well as opportunities, and that these need tailored approaches to meet them.
Thirdly, to help ensure that the necessary connections and capacity are in place at local level to link skills provision with economic need.

112
We are growing our successful maths hubs and setting up a new network of English hubs






There are a variety of institutions at local level with valuable contributions to make to skills development, as set out in the Places chapter. We need to ensure they work together to deliver the best possible outcomes for their community and for the local economy, as part of Local Industrial Strategies.
Recent reforms in education and skills have improved educational outcomes for many children. But the government recognises
that it needs to act to ensure the benefits of these reforms reach every part
of the country. The first stage is to design system- wide policies to effectively support the weakest areas. That is why the new national funding formula ensures that schools with the
most challenging intakes attract the most funding. The £280m Strategic School Improvement Fund will provide high quality, evidence-based support to schools across England. We also need to extend our school improvement
infrastructure to the places that need it most. We are
 growing our successful maths hubs and setting up a new network of English hubs in areas of weak early development in language and literacy.
There are some parts of the country that suffer from even more acute
‘The £280m Strategic School Improvement Fund will provide high quality, evidence- based support to schools across England.‘
£72m Opportunity Areas programme, which will target intensive support through discrete interventions in
12 areas. As well as being priority areas for our national programmes, the areas will benefit from support from national businesses, the Education Endowment Foundation and the Careers Enterprise Company, co-ordinated by local Partnership Boards.
This concentration of resources will allow us to trial innovative new approaches, which can in turn be scaled up to improve performance in the wider system.
We also know that improving the quality of teaching and leadership in a school is a significant driver of school




113



performance, so we want to focus particular effort on addressing this vital engine of educational attainment at a crucial stage in young people’s development. We are already providing over £30m in tailored support to secure more great teachers in the schools that struggle the most with recruitment and retention and will pilot a student loan reimbursement programme to help attract and retain teachers in the subjects and areas of the country that need them most.
However, we believe a significant further intervention is needed to achieve the level of change required on this vital issue. That is why we
will invest £42m to pilot a Teacher Development Premium, as described in more detail in the ‘Places’ chapter. This will test the impact of a £1,000 budget for high quality professional development for teachers in areas of the country that have fallen behind.
Finally, the government has a role to play in ensuring that the connections and capacity exist in local areas and regions to link educational institutions with labour markets. Devolution of budgets and control within England plays its part, and we will devolve the adult education budget to mayoral areas in 2019. This will help mayors to ensure learners can gain the skills that local businesses need. But devolution is only a part of the solution in England, with productive partnership working and meaningful local influence equally important in
ensuring the supply of skills to an area.
 Key to this local influence will be the introduction of Skills Advisory Panels, which will be rolled out shortly, and integrated into Mayoral Combined Authorities and Local Enterprise Partnerships to inform the analysis that feeds into Local Industrial Strategies.
As set out in the Places chapter, these strategies will bring together local actors including businesses and education providers to determine local growth priorities. Skills Advisory Panels will produce rigorous analysis of the current and future supply and demand for skills and help areas form a clearer understanding of their skills requirements. They will have real,
meaningful influence over the provision of education and training for those over the age of 16, and work with Mayoral Combined Authorities and Local Enterprise Partnerships to establish
the best way to ensure that influence is effective, and to inform careers advice and guidance. Skills Advisory Panel analysis will be structured around the 15 new technical education routes; education and training providers will need to take account of this analysis when planning T level offers. As well
as supporting the creation of new Institutes of Technology across all regions to deliver higher level technical education, we will also
promote local Digital Skills Partnerships that will increase collaboration between public, private and charity sector organisations and help address local digital skills needs in more targeted and innovative ways.





114

Creating opportunities for all throughout life

As automation and digitalisation change the nature of jobs and the skills required to do them, and as working lives become longer, it is vital our education system allows people to learn  and train throughout their lives.

That is why the government committed to building the best programme of learning and training for people in work and returning to work. For some, this will mean keeping their skills current in fast-moving sectors. For
others, it will mean refreshing their skills after a period out of the labour market. And
for others still, it will mean training in order to transition or develop their skills as their sector changes in response to technological shifts.
Key parts of this programme are in place already. We
are implementing a range of measures in England to make it as easy as possible to undertake higher-
level study, including the introduction of post-graduate masters and doctoral loans from 2016/17 and 2018/19 respectively. Financial barriers to the provision of accelerated degrees are being reduced for higher education providers that wish to offer a three-year
 degree programme in two years, by introducing new tuition fee arrangements to widen student choice for these degree programmes. The OfS also has powers to monitor and report on arrangements
‘We will pilot a student loan reimbursement programme to help attract and retain teachers in the subjects and areas of the country that need them most.’
available from 2018/19 for all first degrees and graduates undertaking a second degree in a STEM subject.
We want all young people to realise their potential, and we have made progress in boosting the number
of disadvantaged young people who go to university.





115


































We recently launched the first Career Learning Pilot – the £10m Flexible Learning Fund – to test accessible ways of delivering learning to adults
of measures aimed at supporting more students from all backgrounds to participate in higher education and to support their success. The primary aim of the OfS will be to ensure that the higher education system in England is delivering positive outcomes for students.
 This includes requiring universities to publish student participation and progression data broken down by
gender, ethnicity and socio-economic background. This greater transparency will prompt further action and build
on what has already been achieved.
The government is committed to conducting a major review of funding across tertiary education to ensure
a joined-up system that works for everyone. As current and significant reforms move into implementation, this review will look at how we can ensure that the education system for those aged 18 years and over is accessible to all and is supported by a funding system that provides value for money and

Industrial Strategy White Paper


116

works for both students and taxpayers, incentivises choice and competition across the sector, and encourages the development of the skills that we need as a country.
The government is committed to supporting adults to secure meaningful and productive employment, and equipping them with the skills they need to maximise their earning potential. This is core to
our Industrial Strategy as we seek to take advantage of the opportunities from longer working lives, automation of low skilled labour and changes to
the labour market.
To drive up adult learning and retraining, we will introduce an ambitious National Retraining Scheme in England by the end of this Parliament. It will give individuals – particularly those hardest to reach – the skills they need to thrive and support employers to adapt as the economy changes.
A high level advisory group
– the National Retraining Partnership – will bring together the government, businesses and workers, through the Confederation of British Industry and the Trades Union Congress, to set the strategic direction
 and oversee implementation of the scheme.
‘Young people from disadvantaged backgrounds were 43 per cent more likely to go to university in 2016 than in 2009, and applications from such backgrounds are at record levels.’
support projects that design and test flexible, accessible ways of delivering learning to working adults with low or intermediate skills. Further pilots testing other barriers to adults’ learning will be announced in due course.
Starting next year, the National Retraining Scheme will initially target skills shortages in key sectors, ensuring that we can develop much-needed digital and construction skills. A total of £30m will be invested to test the use of artificial intelligence
and innovative education technology (edtech) in online digital skills courses so that students can benefit from this emerging technology.




117

Industrial Strategy White Paper

Matthew Taylor Review
The world of work is changing rapidly.	We accept Matthew Taylor’s
It is becoming more flexible and	recommendation that the government more connected. Advances such	should identify a set of measures
as remote access technology mean	against which to assess job quality and people unable to be in an office eight	success. We are starting a dialogue hours a day can still participate in	with experts – including worker
work. This year we have seen more	representative bodies such as the women active in the labour market	Trades Union Congress, organisations than ever before, and more people	like the Chartered Institute for
with disabilities are able to use their	Personnel and Development talents in the workplace, supporting	and business bodies such as the
and sharing in the economic	Confederation of British Industry – to prosperity of the country126.	develop a common set of principles
We are determined that the UK	and measures. This conversation will should be among the first countries	begin with the aspects that we believe to identify the best way to ensure	are foundational: overall worker everyone benefits from this	satisfaction; good pay; participation technological revolution. That is	and progression; wellbeing, safety why Matthew Taylor, Chief Executive	and security; and voice
of the Royal Society of Arts, was	and autonomy.
commissioned by the Prime Minister	Sector Deals provide a further
to undertake a review of modern	opportunity for employers to promote employment. His report, published in	good work and boost productivity. The July 2017127, outlined an ambition for	right approach will vary from sector all work in the UK economy to be fair	to sector. Delivering better quality
and decent, and for employers to offer	jobs could involve a commitment opportunities that give individuals	to better employment relations realistic scope to develop and	and contracts that fosters both progress. The government shares that	flexibility and security. It could mean ambition for ‘good work’. The Business	on-the-job training or the provision Secretary will take on the role of	of high quality apprenticeships to promoting the delivery of better	help people progress in work. quality jobs in the British economy.
The changing world of work means that what represents ‘good work’ to one person might be different for someone else.


118

We will provide £34m to expand innovative construction training programmes across the country, including a programme in the West Midlands, focused on
supporting the country’s housing needs and building upon existing good practice.
Action on construction and digital is just the first step. Further ahead, and supported by the National Retraining Partnership, we
will be engaging with sectors and Skills Advisory Panels
in England to develop future policy. We will also continue to support Unionlearn, an organisation of the Trades Union Congress, to help embed a culture of learning throughout working lives.
The government must also do more to help people
of all ages navigate our labour market. People need access to the information, advice and guidance
that will help them make choices as they progress through the education system and their careers.
 We will publish a comprehensive careers strategy shortly that will set out plans to improve the quality and coverage of careers advice for people of all ages. The strategy will build on the current work
‘We will provide
£34m to expand innovative construction training programmes across the country, including a programme in
the West Midlands, focused on supporting the country’s housing needs and building upon existing good practice.‘
they need to access training throughout their working lives. It will be based on evidence, both in this country and internationally, which identifies the most effective practices to support people of all ages and in
all areas, including those who are hardest to reach.













119

































Apprenticeships are a vital UK-wide vehicle for employer investment in their workforce, enabling employers to develop the skills and behaviours that they need, as well as offering opportunities for those already in work and those entering it for the first time. We introduced a new Apprenticeship Levy in April 2017 to
reverse the established trend in the UK of low employer investment in skills.
In 2020 levy contributions in England are expected to take apprenticeship investment to double what was spent in 2010128. Apprenticeships funding, raised through the levy, is managed by the Scottish government, Welsh government and Northern Ireland
Executive as skills is a devolved matter.
 
From April 2018, we plan to allow levy-paying employers in England to
transfer up to 10 per cent of their funds to another employer, including within their supply chain. The government will continue to work with employers on how the apprenticeship levy can be
spent, so that the levy works effectively and flexibly for industry, and supports productivity across the country.
We want everyone to have an opportunity to realise the lifetime benefits that come from undertaking an apprenticeship. We are delivering the recommendations of the Maynard Taskforce129 to improve access to apprenticeships for people with learning difficulties and/or disabilities.

Industrial Strategy White Paper




120

We are making over
£60m available to support apprenticeship take up
by young people and poorer families from disadvantaged areas and setting ambitious goals to increase the proportion of apprenticeships started by
people of black and minority ethnic backgrounds or with a learning difficulty and/or disability by 20 per cent
by 2020.
We also need to do more to address the under- representation of other
groups in our labour market and support employees to stay in work. Our economy is missing out on the untapped potential this represents
for employers. Work keeps people healthy, mentally and physically. It enables people to be economically
independent, and gives more choices and opportunities
to fulfil other ambitions in life. The McGregor-Smith Review put the potential benefit to the UK economy from full representation
of black and minority ethnic workers, through improved participation and progression, at £24bn a year130. Organisations with the highest levels of gender diversity are 15 per cent
 more likely to outperform their rivals131, yet female employment continues to be below that of men and the difference in the amount of years women and men spend in full time work is the biggest driver of the 18 per cent gender pay gap132. In mid-2017, just under half of working-age disabled people were in employment, compared with 81 per cent of working-age non-disabled people133. OECD projections show that by 2030, if the share of women working
‘Businesses that have diverse, inclusive workplaces recognise this brings improved productivity. For example, offering flexible working can enable employers to reach a wider talent pool.’
0.5 percentage points in the UK. The boost to economic growth would be even higher if women’s working hours increased too134.
Businesses that
have diverse, inclusive workplaces recognise this brings improved productivity. For example,
offering flexible working can enable employers to reach a wider talent pool, both male and female, including returners, older workers and people with disabilities. Creating a workplace which is truly flexible can improve productivity.






121

Industrial Strategy White Paper


Our Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges on Ageing and growing the Artificial Intelligence & Data-driven Economy set out early actions.
We are already taking steps to encourage wider participation in the labour market. For working parents of three and four year olds in England, we have doubled free childcare from September 2017135. Emerging evidence shows that parents are able to work more hours, with some indication of
 higher retention of mothers in work136. To tackle some of the barriers women face at work we introduced landmark legislation in April 2017, which requires all large employers in Britain to report on their gender pay gap. Although black and minority ethnic employment is at a record high137, we know there is more we can do. We are taking action through the Race Disparity Audit138 in hotspots that require extra work to help those from black and minority ethnic backgrounds into the workplace.
































Gender pay gap
Female
Male
2013	2014	2015	2016
22%
21%
20%
19%
18%
17%
16%
15%
80%

75%

70%

65%

60%

50%
Employment rate by gender and gender pay gap
United Kingdom employment for men and women and the gender pay gap
Employment rate
Gender pay gap


122

We will also publish shortly a plan for improving
social mobility in England, which will set out how the education system will expand equality of opportunity.
Further steps include:
` working with business to develop an action plan to make flexible  working a reality for all employees
across Britain and to inform the evaluation of the Right to Request Flexible Working Regulations. More than twenty million employees now have the right to request flexible working, which is helping parents and others to balance work with other responsibilities. The government will work with employers to help understand and promote practices that enable employees to realise
the potential of those who can benefit from more flexible working;
` supporting people to return to work after time out for caring, with £5m funding announced in
the spring 2017 Budget. Four new public sector programmes are refreshing the skills and experience of returning teachers, social
 workers and allied health professionals in England, and those who wish to become civil servants in England and Scotland.
We are also working with employers and other business groups to increase opportunities within the private sector across
‘More than twenty million employees now have the right to request flexible working, which is helping parents and others to balance work with other responsibilities.’
` publishing plans shortly to achieve our ambition to see one million more disabled people in employment in the UK by 2027. We will also help those with mental health conditions in England to enter, progress and remain in work as part of our response to the recently published Stevenson- Farmer review139.








123

Industrial Strategy White Paper





























Case study: PwC – reporting on black and minority ethnic pay and bonus gaps
PwC has become one of the first	Analysis of the data showed that, organisations to publicly report its	while PwC pays its employees black and minority ethnic pay and	equally for doing equivalent jobs, bonus gaps. Kevin Ellis, chairman	the pay gap in PwC was driven and senior partner at PwC, has set	by a greater proportion of black out the ambition: ‘We are hoping	and minority ethnic staff in junior that by reporting our black and	administrative roles and fewer in minority ethnic pay and bonus	senior management. Through gaps we can shine the spotlight	taking steps to understand its
on ethnicity in the workplace	workforce, PwC has been able to and encourage organisations to	implement new approaches that take action. In our experience,	aim to retain its junior black publishing pay data adds a level	and minority ethnic talent and of public accountability that starts	improve rates of progression to conversations and drives change’.	senior management levels.



124

Global skills and talent

The actions and approaches that we have set out in this chapter will be more critical as we exit the European Union and look to improve the levels of skills of our workforce to meet the opportunities and challenges ahead.

We want to continue to be an attractive destination for the world’s most talented and innovative people and the UK will continue to remain a global, outward looking nation and home to the brightest and best. Our thriving and flexible labour market continues to attract international businesses and investment, enabling businesses to respond and adapt to economic change.
 To ensure that our labour market remains competitive, the Migration Advisory Committee has recently undertaken a wide-ranging consultation to form a
‘We want to continue to be an attractive destination for the world’s most talented and innovative people and the UK... will remain a home
to the brightest and the best.’



























125

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































126
Infrastructure


•	•	•	•
•	•
 INDUSTRIAL
STRATEGY

•
• •
 •	•••	•
•

•	•	•	o·
•
•
•
•
•
•

•	•	• • • • •	• •	•
 i=i	I

•	•	• •	•	•
	•	 The OECD ranks the

	•	places to start and
•
	•	•	grow a business
• •	•
•	• I •	•

•	•	•	•	•
••	•	\
 •	•	•
•

•	•	•
 •	•	•	• •

•
• • •	•• • •
 •	•	••

•
	•	V	•

•	•	•
 •	• • •

• -t	• • •
 -----

Industrial Strategy White Paper
Infrastructure

A major upgrade to the UK’s infrastructure.

Infrastructure is the essential underpinning of our lives and work, and having modern and
accessible infrastructure throughout the country is essential to our future growth and prosperity.
Much of this investment is, by its nature, large scale and long term, and one of the most significant ways the government can influence the economy – from our transport and housing through to the roll-out of digital networks. Our National Infrastructure and Construction
Pipeline is worth around £600bn and public infrastructure investment will have doubled in a decade by 2022/23.
We must make sure our infrastructure choices not only provide the basics for the economy, they must actively support our long-term productivity, providing greater certainty and
clear strategic direction. Our investment decisions need to be more geographically balanced and include more local voices. We can improve how we link up people and markets to attract investment, and we must be more forward-looking in respect of significant global economic trends.
Through our Industrial Strategy, the country’s economic geography will be transformed by a surge of infrastructure investment heralding a new technological era.
 We will build a Britain that lives on the digital frontier, with full-fibre broadband, new 5G networks and smart technologies. We will create a new high speed rail network that connects people to jobs and
opportunities, regenerate our stations and airports, and progressively upgrade our road network. And we will improve people’s lives where they live and
Key policies include:




` Increase the National Productivity Investment Fund to £31bn, supporting investments in transport, housing and digital infrastructure
` Support electric vehicles through
£400m charging infrastructure investment and an extra £100m to extend the plug-in car grant
` Boost our digital infrastructure with over £1bn of public investment, including £176m for 5G and £200m for local areas to encourage roll out of full-fibre networks

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































128


128

The availability of high quality infrastructure is essential for our lives and work, and our future growth and prosperity. Efficient transport systems bring a wide range of work within people’s reach, and bring goods from suppliers
to markets. Clean and affordable energy holds down the cost of living and the cost of doing business. Digital infrastructure allows us to lead modern lives and to do business
in the technologies and industries of the future. Providing the right infrastructure in the right places boosts the earning power of our businesses, people and places.
Our investments in infrastructure, and our decisions on procurement, are among the government’s most significant interventions in the economy. They
are large-scale – our National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline is worth around £600bn of
public and private investment, and we spend 14 per cent
of GDP on public sector procurement each year141
– and they are long-term, shaping the evolution of the economy over decades.
 The way we make these investments influences the pattern of industrial development across the country, and the speed of emergence and adoption of new technologies and
business models. Just as our market structures can be designed to favour innovation or incumbents, so can our choice of investments.
‘Our National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline is worth
around £600bn and public infrastructure investment will have doubled in a decade by 2022/23.’
the economy, but also actively supports our long- term national interests.
In many important respects we have a strong track record and we will continue to promote the UK’s strengths as a destination for capital investment. In 2016, the UK had the most attractive environment for infrastructure investment when compared to 25 international competitors142.






129

Industrial Strategy White Paper

























At least 95 per cent of UK premises will have access to superfast broadband by the end of 2017








National Productivity Investment Fund: £31bn until 2022/23
Allocations to date:

			
Transport	Housing	Digital	Research and
£4.9bn	£11.5bn	£0.7bn	Development
£7.1bn
Costs are presented on a UK basis. Further allocations will be made at future fiscal events.




130

We have established the National Infrastructure Commission to advise us on investment.
The government has improved coverage for digital infrastructure. 95 per cent
of premises will have access to superfast broadband by the end of 2017; 99 per cent have indoor voice coverage; and 96 per cent have indoor 4G data coverage143. Our cities are embracing new technology, illustrated by Swansea exploring the potential for 5G technology as part of its City Deal.
Meanwhile, investments in clean energy infrastructure have helped to cut
carbon emissions by 42 per cent since 1990144, while the economy has grown by two thirds145.
However, there are opportunities for improvement, and specific challenges that an Industrial Strategy allows us to address. Throughout our Green Paper consultation, stakeholders have emphasised the importance of considering a broad range of objectives when designing major investment
 programmes, as too narrow an assessment of costs
and benefits can preclude important opportunities.
We have also heard calls for our investments to be more geographically balanced, and more forward-looking in respect of significant global economic trends.
The devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have responsibility for aspects
‘Our cities are embracing new technology, illustrated by Swansea exploring the potential for 5G technology as part of its City Deal.’
The devolution settlement has never been a barrier to shared best practice and where appropriate we will continue to collaborate with our partners in each nation.








131





















We will invest to increase UK competitiveness in relation to long-term global economic changes, such as the shift to clean growth

We are committed to increasing our investment in infrastructure, while providing greater certainty and a clear long-term direction.

The National Productivity Investment Fund will be extended to 2022/23 and increased from £23bn to £31bn, with investment targeted at areas that can have the biggest impact on productivity. This includes £4.9bn for transport,
£11.6bn for housing and £740m for digital infrastructure. Public investment in economic infrastructure will have doubled in a decade by 2022/23. This investment will be delivered through a strengthened institutional framework, with longer-term budgets, the advice of the National Infrastructure Commission, an increased focus on effective delivery of projects in departments, and five- year capital investment programmes for road, rail, water and flooding.
We will take a more strategic approach to our investment and design of relevant markets, focusing on three principles.
 We will:
` invest in ways that support all the objectives of the Industrial Strategy: increasing innovation, developing skills, growing business, and driving productivity and earning power in urban and rural places across the UK;
` take greater account of disparities in productivity and economic opportunity between different places, ensuring
our investments drive growth across all regions of the UK; and
` invest to increase UK competitiveness in relation to long-term global economic changes, such as the
shift to clean growth. These will be positive choices that enable the UK economy to flourish in the context of these transformational changes.

Industrial Strategy White Paper



132

Investing to support the objectives of the Industrial Strategy

The essential role played by infrastructure means our investment decisions can have transformational effects on places, businesses and society.

We will maximise the contribution that such investments can make to growth and productivity by strengthening consideration of broad strategic outcomes at the earliest stage of policy and programme design,
and then carrying them through all subsequent parts of the design and procurement process.
To deliver this, we will embed Industrial Strategy objectives in the strategic design stage of major investments. We will review different methodologies and promote the adoption of best practice. We will develop this approach, including through the forthcoming Transforming Infrastructure Performance
programme, to consider how our investment programmes can be designed to support our Industrial Strategy objectives, such as:
 ` Grand Challenges – to what extent the investment can support the success of our Grand Challenges on artificial intelligence and data, clean growth, the future of mobility and the needs of an ageing society;
‘We will embed Industrial Strategy objectives in the strategic design stage of major investments. We will review different methodologies and
promote the adoption of best practice.’
` People – whether the investment can support the development of skills within the UK workforce;
` Business environment – how investments can best support supply chains, and the exporting of goods and services; and
` Places – how the investment can act to reduce regional
productivity differences, and boost earning power across the UK.







133



An early example is the National Shipbuilding Strategy146, where we have begun work to understand how UK shipbuilding can maximise prosperity for the UK and its constituent nations and regions. The forthcoming Transforming Infrastructure Performance programme and Transport Infrastructure Efficiency Strategy, along with the Transport Infrastructure Skills Strategy will support the increase in innovation, skills, businesses growth and earning power, and ensure these interests inform decision-making.
They will help the government and its agencies in building long- term collaborations with industry, reducing procurement transaction costs, maximising innovation, and
exploiting digital technologies such as the adoption of off-site construction techniques and smart infrastructure.
We have already improved our approach to procurement through the ‘balanced scorecard’, which requires procurers to consider relevant social and economic objectives, such as skills development, diverse supply chains and sustainability, alongside cost-effectiveness. We will embed this
approach on all major construction and capital investment projects. We are boosting procurement standards by extending the Commercial Capability Development Programme to arm’s- length bodies and will improve our procurement tools to make public sector contracts more accessible for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and to further incentivise
 innovation. We will improve our digital procurement platforms to make it easier for suppliers to do business with the government, for example through implementation of the Crown Marketplace purchasing platform. We will explore how to build on our pilot to collect feedback from purchasers – which may help highlight the quality on offer from smaller, less well-known businesses in addition
to larger, more established brands. We will align the Small Business Research Initiative (SBRI) with the Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges, and introduce a GovTech Catalyst with a GovTech Fund of up to £20m over three years, which will use SBRI to help government departments procure innovative solutions.
As a general principle, we will aim for resilience as well as efficiency – the resilience of our infrastructure systems and the wider environments within which they operate. This is
important both for avoiding disruptions caused by shocks, such as flooding
and drought, and for supporting sustainable growth in our economy and population over the long term.
` We are setting high standards in cyber and climate change resilience for our projects across the UK, which will give us greater security and protection from natural risks, and can be the basis for a successful industry exporting these services.
Resilience is proposed as a key performance measure within the






134

National Infrastructure Commission’s assessments.
` We will work not just to preserve, but to enhance our natural capital – the air, water, soil and ecosystems that support all forms of life
– since this is an essential basis for economic growth and productivity over the long term. In England, our 25-year Environment Plan will set out an ambitious approach to ensure that all aspects of natural capital are taken into account in our approach to infrastructure  and other major investment
decisions, while each of the devolved administrations take forward their own work to secure and support the UK’s natural capital.
` We are investing £2.6bn to better protect the nation from flooding, including more than 1,500 flood defence schemes, which will protect 7,500 households and provide
£30bn in economic benefits147. These projects, such as the River Hull waterfront, act as a catalyst for regeneration. A £4.3m flood alleviation scheme in Selly Park North in Birmingham
 enabled new, flood- resilient student nurse accommodation to be built.
` We are developing a National Policy Statement for water resources to ensure that businesses and households in England can continue to rely on high quality water supplies in the future. This will
be complemented by more ambitious demand and environmental management.




‘We are setting high standards in cyber and climate change resilience for our projects across the UK, which will give us greater security and protection from natural risks.’







135






















Case Study: Heathrow Logistics Hubs
Heathrow Airport has invested	The proposed logistics hubs will more than £11bn in the last decade	ensure that people from across the including building the new Terminal	UK benefit from the expansion of 2 and Terminal 5. It is one of Britain’s	the airport. By inviting other major
biggest infrastructure clients	infrastructure clients into the process spending more than £1.5bn annually	there is the potential for them to
with 1,200 suppliers from around	benefit, and together offer long- the UK.	term custom through a succession
Heathrow has recently set out the	of projects, supporting investment in procurement strategy that it intends	offsite manufacturing facilities and to follow. It has long-listed 65 sites	employment around the country.
across the UK in the running to be	By considering its procurement
selected as a Logistics Hub for the	strategy at the earliest stage, potential expansion of the airport.	Heathrow has shown how it can both Four locations will eventually	affordably and sustainably spread the be selected to pre-assemble	potential benefits of expansion across components of the expanded	the UK whilst securing the capacity airport before transporting them in	required to deliver the programme. consolidated loads to Heathrow.




136

Invest in infrastructure to drive growth across the UK

In our more strategic approach to infrastructure investment, a priority will be to strengthen growth and accelerate the creation of
economic opportunities throughout the UK.

Well-targeted investment can drive economic development, particularly when implemented as part of a wider programme of interventions to  address the unique circumstances of each area. However, an approach based solely on static analysis can favour investment in places where development has already happened, and overlook long-term benefits that infrastructure can bring to a place. Cost-benefit analysis
will remain central to decision making, complemented by our approach to strategic programme design, referenced previously, which will make use of broad-based and dynamic assessment techniques that reflect the full potential for infrastructure
to support local economies.
Transport is particularly important to supporting local growth, in both urban and rural communities.
Our Rebalancing Toolkit will provide a framework to
support high value transport
 investments in less productive parts of the UK. The toolkit will ensure that the dynamic benefits of investment are considered more strategically by improving the focus, quality and transparency
‘Transport investment must seek to create a more reliable, less congested and better connected transport network to build
a stronger, more balanced economy.’
More broadly, as set out in the Transport Investment Strategy148, transport investment must seek to create a more reliable, less congested and better
connected transport network; to build a stronger, more balanced economy by enhancing productivity and responding to local growth priorities; to enhance our global competitiveness
by making the UK a more attractive place to trade and invest; and to support the creation of new housing. In addition, we will fund a new Major




137



Road Network to improve connectivity by targeting funding at strategically important local authority ‘A’ roads.
The Transforming Cities Fund will provide £1.7bn for projects that improve connectivity, reduce congestion
and utilise new mobility services and technology. It will transform local productivity in city regions, for
example, by linking the towns around our cities to city centres, and to each other. Half of this funding will be allocated through a competition for transport projects in cities, with the remainder allocated to the six combined authorities with elected metro mayors.
We will continue to strengthen local decision making on infrastructure. We will make the most of places’
strengths through our Local Industrial Strategies and City Deals, and we will lend local authorities in England up to
£1bn at a discounted interest rate to support local, high-value infrastructure projects through the Public Works Loan Board, with corresponding shares available to local authorities in Scotland and Wales. As respondents to our Green Paper consultation proposed, the establishment of Sub-National Transport Bodies, the development of Combined Authorities, enhancement
of Local Enterprise Partnerships and the introduction of Local Industrial Strategies will further strengthen the capabilities of communities to identify their infrastructure needs and to work with central government to deliver them. Transport for the North will become a statutory body in April 2018, and the government will continue
to work with Midlands Connect and
 England’s Economic Heartland to improve prioritisation of local projects as they work towards statutory status. This includes by providing
£6m to support the development and delivery of rail and motorway projects in the Midlands Connect strategy.
Our transformational projects, such as High Speed 2, will offer opportunities for local development across their routes. £300m will be invested to ensure High Speed 2 infrastructure can accommodate future Northern Powerhouse and Midlands rail services.
This will enable faster services between cities in the north, including Liverpool and Manchester, Sheffield, Leeds and York, and from these cities to the East Midlands and London. This will realise benefits across the UK for decades to come.
Respondents to our Green Paper consultation highlighted the importance of housing to the economic success of our cities and regions. As detailed  in the Places chapter, we have announced a comprehensive policy package that will raise housing supply by the end
of this Parliament to its highest level since the 1970s, on track to reach 300,000 per year. This will be achieved through £15.3bn of new financial support for housing over the next five years, taking total support to £44bn over the period, as well as planning reforms to make more land available for housing, and better use of underused land in our cities and towns. Housing developments require appropriate infrastructure so we are increasing
the Housing Infrastructure Fund to
£5bn to provide the right conditions for more house-building to take place.



138

To improve the productivity of construction, the Transforming Infrastructure Performance programme will use the power of
government spending to help drive the adoption of modern methods of construction.
This will build on the commitment made by five government departments to adopt a presumption in
favour of offsite construction by 2019 across suitable capital programmes
where this represents best value for money. This will bring together government and industry
to facilitate implementation of the Construction Sector Deal, including £170m
of investment through the Industrial Strategy
programme, Transforming Construction, which will support innovation and skills in the sector.
Our international gateways connect people and markets and attract inward investment, keeping the UK globally competitive.
Our ports handle 95 per cent of UK freight149, and we have asked the National Infrastructure
Commission to undertake a study on the future of freight infrastructure. The
 study will be published in spring 2019 and will
look at urban congestion, decarbonisation and how to harness the potential of new technologies.
We have the third largest aviation network in the world150 and are developing a new Aviation Strategy to build on our strengths to create a safe, secure and sustainable aviation sector for a global, outward-looking Britain. We are also making progress towards delivering much-needed new airport capacity in the south east.
‘The Transforming Cities Fund will provide £1.7bn for projects that improve connectivity, reduce congestion and utilise new mobility services and technology.‘
As technology evolves, low cost access to space offers an exciting opportunity
for the UK to thrive in the commercial space age. We are working with industry to grow our share of the global space market from
6.5 per cent to 10 per cent by 2030. To achieve this, businesses must be able to pursue new commercial opportunities from the UK.






139


Case Study: How HS2 will help to deliver our Industrial Strategy





















High Speed 2 is an example of an infrastructure project that can deliver the wider ambitions of our Industrial Strategy. The project will establish a High Speed Rail network from London to Leeds and Manchester, with construction continuing until 2033. This provides a long-term opportunity
to contribute to growth and productivity throughout the UK, and to support each foundation of our Industrial Strategy:
Ideas	People
` HS2 is working with i3P to enable	` 25,000 jobs will be supported collaboration between clients,		in the construction of HS2, including government and the supply chain		up to 2,000 new apprenticeships. on strategic collaborative innovation		70 per cent of these jobs will be opportunities152.		outside London.
` The UK Rail Research and Innovation	` More than 3,000 permanent jobs Network will enable collaboration		will be created by the operation between the rail industry,		and maintenance of HS2. universities, small and medium-sized
business (SMEs), and infrastructure owners to deliver innovations for both HS2 and the existing network.


140

` Those shortlisted to bid for the £2.75bn rolling stock contract should illustrate how they will support the HS2 strategic goals and
objectives, including the creation of employment opportunities and investment in workforce education and skills.
` HS2 has supported the development and
opening of the National College for High Speed Rail. 1,000 people will train at the college each year.
Business Environment
` Around 60 per cent of contracts within the supply chain are expected to be awarded to SMEs, with suppliers required
to advertise subcontract opportunities to further boost SME accessibility.
` It will increase the ability for start-up businesses outside London to connect with international investors, venture capitalists and mentors in the capital,
giving them the reliability and accessibility they need to develop long- term relationships.
 ` It will make it easier for businesses throughout Britain to access international markets by bringing our city regions closer to airports.
Places
‘25,000 jobs will be supported in the
construction of HS2, including up to 2,000 new apprenticeships. 70 per cent of these jobs will be outside London.’
` For example, the Greater Manchester Combined Authority recognises the opportunity HS2 brings in making Manchester a more attractive business location. It estimates that up to 180,000 new jobs will be created by 2040153, adding £1.3bn to the region’s economy154.






141



We will support this, subject to business case through a £50m programme to enable new satellite launch services and low gravity spaceflights from UK spaceports, building on £99m that
we are already investing to build the National Satellite Test Facility. These investments will give the UK end-to- end capability in the building, testing and launch of small satellites, boosting our economy and inspiring the next generation of scientists and engineers.
We are already legislating to enable a safe
 and supportive regulatory environment for these activities, and several sites
in England, Wales and Scotland have so far come forward with spaceport plans. UK spaceports could access
a global market for launching small satellites worth £10bn over 10 years151, and offer low gravity flights to advance cutting-edge science. The UK Space Agency will help industry to develop new technologies, infrastructure and services, establishing the UK as a world leading destination for space launch.


Increasing competitiveness in the face of major global economic forces

We will invest to increase the UK’s competitiveness in transformative parts of the global economy.

The shift to clean growth and the spread of digital technology are particularly significant, as our infrastructure decisions in these areas are already shaping the evolution of markets and encouraging the emergence of new technologies.
These trends will affect the way we live, work and travel, and will disrupt business models and markets across multiple sectors over coming decades. We will invest in infrastructure that enables
the country to flourish and maximises economic opportunities, supporting our Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges.
Clean Growth
As our Clean Growth Grand Challenge outlines, we want to maximise the advantages for UK industry of the global shift to clean growth. We will position the UK as a world leader,
 deploying the major interventions of the Industrial Strategy – in innovation, skills, business and local growth, trade and investment – in support of this goal.

The UK’s clean economy could grow at four times the rate of GDP

	4x	




142

40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
B. Share of global construction with more than 60% green projects
2015

2018 (expected)
‘UK spaceports could access a global market for launching small satellites worth
£10bn over 10 years, and offer low gravity flights to advance cutting edge science.’
The clean economy’s growing share of global markets
A. Clean power investment as share of global power investment

2012-2016

2017-2040 (projected)

0%
20%
40%
80%























0%
20%
40%
60%


C. Global market share of electric vehicles

2015

2040 (projected)
A: Frankfurt School - UNEP Collaborating Centre (2017) Global Trends in Renewable Energy Investment 2017, Bloomberg New Energy Finance (2017), New Energy Outlook 2017
B: Dodge Data & Analytics (2016) “World green building trends 2016: developing markets accelerate global green growth”
C: Bloomberg New Energy Finance (2017) “New Energy Outlook 2017”



143



























This will build on the more than
£2.5bn of government investment in low carbon innovation by 2021 set out in the Clean Growth Strategy. In addition to the Faraday Challenge for battery technology, we are now announcing three new Industrial
Strategy programmes in Clean Growth across energy, construction and agriculture. We will continue to build our international partnerships in clean growth research and innovation: the UK is a proud member of Mission Innovation – a global initiative that aims
to reinvigorate and accelerate the global clean energy revolution. And we will strengthen support to commercialise new clean technologies through
our investments in patient capital, beginning with a new equity fund for which we will provide up to £20m.
We will use all the government tools available to support innovation in
a low carbon economy including
 market design, taxation and regulation. We will also aim to accelerate private investment and promote market growth.

£100bn
of annual exports could be supported
by the UK’s clean economy by 2030

Our approach is to undertake a comprehensive package  of measures to promote the uptake of zero emission vehicles. We have announced a further
£100m for the plug-in car grant to incentivise the purchase of battery electric vehicles, and we are committing to 25 per cent of the cars in central government department fleets being electric by 2022. We are announcing
an additional £200m of public investment, to be matched by private investment to create a new £400m

Industrial Strategy White Paper


144

Charging Infrastructure Investment Fund, and we will regulate to support further expansion of the charging infrastructure network.
After the Grenfell Review, we will update building regulations to mandate that all new residential developments must contain the enabling cabling for charge-points in the homes.
We will also provide £40m to support new technologies for on-street and wireless charging. By acting in this way to strengthen the growth of markets for clean technologies in the UK, we
will support the development of the UK supply chains
that will create jobs and drive future exports.
We will promote overseas investment in the UK’s clean economy and strengthen our support for UK exporters through better identification of overseas opportunities, industry briefings, overseas missions, pavilions at key international events and campaigns for sectors
and industries that are delivering clean growth. We will also promote the UK’s exceptional expertise
through the Green is GREAT campaign to amplify the UK’s global reputation for excellence in this area.
 Many of our stakeholders have called on us to take a ‘whole systems approach’ to the decarbonisation
of energy infrastructure systems. We agree with this principle, and will position the UK as a leader in
clean and efficient power, transport and heat through an integrated approach
to decarbonising these increasingly connected systems. We aim to implement our Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan in full by 2022, enabling the electricity system
‘We are announcing an additional £200m of public investment, to be matched by private investment, to create a new
£400m Charging Infrastructure Investment Fund.’
and heat networks.





145




An important benefit of a cleaner economy is cleaner air. We are determined to tackle air pollution and support affected areas, given the significant negative impact it has on public health, the economy and the environment. We will provide
£220m for a new Clean Air Fund that will allow local authorities in England
 
with the most challenging pollution problems to help individuals and businesses adapt as measures to improve air quality are implemented. This new fund is in addition to the
£255m provided to implement the Air Quality plan earlier this year, and takes the total amount invested in cleaner air since 2010 to £3.2bn.



Case Study: Smart Islands programme on the Isles of Scilly
Located in the Atlantic Ocean, 28	company and monitored through an miles from the mainland, the Isles of	‘internet of things’ platform. Energy Scilly face challenges in installing new	audits, monitoring and training will be infrastructure, with high costs shared	provided for free, young people will among a population of only 2,500	have the opportunity to undertake people. Taking on these challenges,	internships and develop STEM skills, a new Smart Islands programme will	and support will be provided to 10 use smart grid technology to improve	supply chain businesses in the region energy provision, reduce costs and	to develop new products and services
support local growth.	for the programme. As one of the first
The Smart Islands programme	of its kind, and a model that will be will aim to transform the islands’	scalable to other rural communities infrastructure, with its goals to provide and cities across the world, the
40 per cent of electricity using	programme offers the potential to
renewables, to cut electricity bills by	build and export UK expertise. 40 per cent, and for 40 per cent of	The programme is a partnership vehicles on the islands to be electric or	between the public and private
low carbon – all by 2025.	sectors, including the council, Hitachi,
The programme will pilot an integrated	Moixa, PassivSystems, and other local smart energy system to improve	partners. The Cornwall and Isles of energy efficiency and manage energy	Scilly Local Enterprise Partnership has demand, incorporating new low	agreed in principle to provide up to carbon and smart technologies, such	£2.95m to support the programme, as electric vehicles. It will be operated	funded through our Local Growth
by a local community energy services	Fund.


146

















The dramatic reduction in the cost of offshore wind is an example of how business innovation can be supported through effective market design




Funding will start from 2018, and will be allocated competitively to local authorities in England with
the worst pollution problems. More generally, we will expect local areas in England to consider clean energy and the economy-wide shift to clean growth as important elements in the development and implementation of
Local Industrial Strategies.
As these transformational changes in our energy systems take place, we will remain committed to
minimising energy costs for households and businesses.
 
Innovation and system efficiency will be central to this over the long term.
‘A new Smart Islands programme will use smart grid technology to improve energy provision, reduce costs and support local growth.’
wind is an example of how business innovation can be supported through effective market design.
We will carefully consider the findings of Professor Dieter Helm’s review into the cost of energy155, and act on further opportunities for cost reduction in
the power sector.







147


Moving towards a regenerative circular economy
The economy exists within the	` raising the resource productivity natural world, and cannot be		of businesses, including through separated from it. Energy and		the promotion of recycling and materials are essential contributions		strong secondary materials markets to the production of goods and		where products are designed with services, and a healthy society		efficiency and recyclability in mind; depends on a healthy environment.	` working in partnership with food
The Natural Capital Committee has	businesses ‘from farm to fork’,
advised that carefully planned and		through the Courtauld Commitment targeted investments in natural		to deliver a 20 per cent per capita capital – such as woodland planting,		reduction in food waste by 2025; peatland restoration and wetland	` supporting innovative and
creation – can deliver significant	highly-efficient precision agriculture
economic growth, and generate	through the Industrial Strategy returns of up to nine times the costs.	programme: ‘Transforming food
A linear ‘take, make, dispose’	production, from farm economy risks eroding the natural	to fork’;
capital central to its long-term	` a new Bioeconomy Strategy
growth through resource depletion	that will set out a framework for
and environmental pollution.	growth in the sector to develop
We are committed to moving towards	new low carbon bio-based
a more circular economy – to raising		products and processes; and productivity by using resources more	` continually strengthening our efficiently, to increasing resilience		policies in line with our national by contributing to a healthier		ambitions of zero avoidable
environment, and to supporting	waste and a doubling of resource
long-term growth by regenerating	productivity by 2050, including our natural capital. Our measures	through our 25-year Environment to achieve this will include:	Plan and a new strategy for
` an approach to infrastructure	resources and waste.
investment that aims to
regenerate natural capital, as set out in this chapter;






148

In the more immediate term, energy efficiency and reforms to the retail energy market will provide the opportunity to lower bills.
Up to £6bn could be saved in 2030 through investment in cost effective energy saving technologies in the industrial and commercial sector156. We will encourage greater investment in energy efficiency measures and technologies, including by developing a new scheme
to support investment in industrial energy efficiency, to help large businesses install measures that will cut their energy use and bills, as we as improve
their productivity. We are developing a wider package of measures to support businesses to improve
their energy productivity and increase their energy efficiency by at least 20 per cent by 2030, and will consult on this in 2018. We have also launched calls for evidence on additional measures to build a market for energy efficiency among homeowners, and in ensuring the public sector leads by example in encouraging wider markets for energy efficiency.
 We can also reduce costs for the UK as a whole by making intelligent use of our oil and gas assets and expertise. While the move towards clean growth is clear, oil and gas remains one of the most productive sectors of the UK economy, supporting 200,000 jobs directly and in the supply chain157, and generating
£24bn in annual exports158. The emerging shale gas industry offers the prospect of creating jobs, enhancing the competitiveness of downstream sectors and building up supply chains.
‘We are committed to… raising productivity by using resources more efficiently, to increasing resilience by contributing
to a healthier environment and to supporting long- term growth by regenerating our natural capital.’
industries while recognising the devolved nature of planning in the devolved nations, and will work
with the sector to explore its potential contribution to clean growth through
technologies such as carbon capture, use and storage, and the hydrogen economy.








149


The circular economy replaces extraction and waste with restoration and regeneration. Products, components and materials are reused
in ways that maintain their utility and value as they move through biological and technical cycles159.



Biological materials
Farming/ collection
 Mining/materials manufacturing
 
Technical materials




Restoration
 


Biochemical feedstock
 Parts manufacturer Product manufacturer Service provider
 


Recycle

Refurbish/ remanufacture


Biogas

Anaerobic digestion/
composting
 Cascades
 


Collection
 Reuse/redistribute Maintenance

Extraction of biochemical feedback
 Energy recovery

150

We will become a world leader in 5G, and provide reliable, high-speed connectivity to our towns, cities and rural areas
Landfill

Digital
The world is becoming increasingly digitalised, and digital connectivity has
rapidly become an essential requirement for the way people live and do business.
As well as providing improved connectivity we have an opportunity to develop
digital technologies that we can export to the world.
As we have set out in the Digital Strategy160, we are already taking action to improve connectivity for UK businesses and consumers and we are working with industry and Ofcom, the communications regulator,
 
to ensure there is connectivity where people live, work, and travel. We are building on the success of our Superfast Broadband Programme, which will provide 95 per cent of UK premises with access to superfast broadband by
the end of this year161.
We are also taking steps to facilitate the delivery of the next generation of digital connectivity, to bring about faster and more reliable connections throughout the UK. We have announced
‘We are... taking steps to facilitate the delivery of the next generation of digital connectivity, to bring about faster and more reliable connections throughout the UK.’



United Kingdom mobile data traffic
Total UK mobile data traffic

120

100

80

60

40

20

0
2011	2012	2013	2014
2015
2016

Gigabytes, millions


151

Industrial Strategy White Paper
















GATEway (Greenwich Automated Transport Environment) is an £8m research project, led by TRL, to understand how to overcome the technical, legal and societal challenges of implementing automated vehicles in an urban environment






















































	Spain	Italy
UK	Japan	France Germany	US
80%

60%

40%

20%

0
=10Mbits/s
=30Mbits/s
=100Mbits/s
100%
Availability of fixed broadband networks by advertised speeds, 2015
Roll-out of super-fast and ultra-fast broadband in the UK compared to the rest of the G7
Percentage of households

152

infrastructure, taking total investment from the National Productivity Investment Fund to £740m, and total public investment to over £1bn.
Our ambitious 5G Strategy outlines the policies that will put the UK at the forefront of the next generation of mobile technology by creating the conditions for the market
to develop and to deploy 5G in a timely and efficient manner. An upgrade to our
5G Strategy will be published before the end of year.
Fundamental to this success is the 5G Testbeds and Trials Programme. The programme will harness areas where the UK has a
competitive advantage – such as in scientific research, engineering talent and our rich variety of technology businesses. It will help
deliver projects in phases, starting with an initial £25m competition for projects in different industry sectors.
This builds on £16m of existing investment in the 5GUK test network facility
– a world-leading project being delivered by three universities to develop a 5G test network facility.
We will invest a further
£160m in new 5G infrastructure. One of the first projects to benefit will
 see £10m invested to create facilities where the security of 5G networks can be tested and proven. A £5m trial to test 5G applications and deployment on roads in 2018, will help to test how we can maximise future productivity benefits from self-driving cars, building on the work already progressing on connected and autonomous vehicle trials in the West Midlands. The National Infrastructure Commission will also launch a new innovation prize
‘The 5G Testbeds and Trials Programme... will harness areas where the UK
has a competitive advantage – such as in scientific research, engineering talent and our rich variety of technology businesses.‘
To support the path to 5G, we will provide additional government investment of up to £35m to fund a trial of technical and commercial solutions to high-speed, reliable connectivity on
the train via trackside infrastructure. This will be used to upgrade the Network Rail test track in Melton Mowbray, install trackside infrastructure along the Trans-Pennine
route between Manchester, Leeds and York, and support the rollout of full-fibre and 5G networks. It will build on existing projects, such as Project SWIFT (Superfast
Wi-Fi In-carriage-for Future Travel), a joint venture



153



between CISCO, Network Rail and Innovate UK that will facilitate a rail Wi-Fi trial between Glasgow and Edinburgh.
5G deployment will require a boost in infrastructure investment and we will work with Ofcom to facilitate this. In future, infrastructure sharing and neutral host models, where service providers pay for access to networks
owned and maintained by third-parties, could become more widespread to support dense networks in connectivity hotspots and to provide wide area coverage in hard to reach areas.
In addition to becoming a world leader in 5G, we need to provide reliable full-fibre connectivity to our towns, cities and rural areas. Only three per cent of the UK has full-fibre coverage – where full-fibre can connect directly to the premises with significantly enhanced data capacity – compared with 70 per cent or higher in Spain, Portugal, Japan and South Korea.
 Our ambition is for ten million premises to be connected to the ‘full-fibre’ network, with a clear path to national coverage over the next decade. More investment in fibre and ultrafast services is being supported by the Digital Infrastructure Investment
Fund. This has accelerated roll-out by increasing access to private finance for businesses involved – encouraging new entrants to the market and unlocking over £1bn in investment.
We have made significant progress in helping to create the conditions for investment in full-fibre connectivity,
through our investments programmes, the introduction of a five year business rates relief for fibre infrastructure deployed from April 2017, and the establishment of a Barrier Removal Task Force. To build on this, we will undertake a review of telecoms market, to understand businesses’ incentives for investment in new digital infrastructure,

154

Digital rail technology will transform the railways, enabling trains to run more frequently, at lower cost and greater resilience

establishing a clear evidence base to determine what,
if any, additional policy interventions may be needed to deliver our objectives whilst promoting a stable environment for investment. It will take into account the expected developments in the regulation of the telecoms market and will assess:
` the barriers to investment in digital infrastructure and next-generation digital connectivity, now and over the coming decades including cost, levels of demand, and market structures;
` how investment incentives vary between different areas of the UK and across different parts of the telecoms market; and
` what policy changes the government should consider to encourage
greater investment in new digital infrastructure. These may include encouraging greater competition,
other measures that can increase the attractiveness of investment through changes in the relative risks and returns, or direct government intervention.
A report, to be published in summer 2018, will identify options for incentivising
 investment in the UK’s future digital infrastructure. We will also publish a Statement of Strategic Priorities next year setting out our objectives in relation to the widespread availability of fixed and mobile connectivity.
Full-fibre is the gold standard for fast and reliable broadband. We are investing
£200m in the Local Full-fibre Networks Challenge Fund
to stimulate commercial telecoms network providers to build more full-fibre connections to homes
‘Our ambition is for ten million premises to be connected to the full-fibre network, with a clear path to national coverage over the next decade.’
£2m pilot voucher scheme in Aberdeenshire, Bristol, Bath and north-east Somerset, Coventry and Warwickshire, and West Yorkshire. The remaining £190m will be competitively allocated through a Challenge Fund, open to local areas, with funding awarded to those areas that can best leverage private sector investment
in building and extending local fibre networks.
Digital technology will transform our railways, allowing more frequent, more reliable services, and we want Britain to be at the forefront of developing this technology.




155



We have announced £5m to embed Digital Railway technology between Manchester and York. In addition, we will provide £84m for best-in-class, state-
of-the-art in-cab digital signalling across a range of trains, and £5m to develop
a Digital Railway upgrade on the south
 east and east London lines, alongside funding to develop a Digital Railway upgrade on the Moorgate branch.
Network Rail will work with stakeholders to develop a strategy to grow our
skills and expertise in Digital Rail.







Case study: Vodafone and CityFibre
The government’s ambition to	Construction of the first phase of provide ten million premises with	deployment to one million premises ‘full-fibre’ will require new ways	is due to start in the first half of
of funding and delivering network	2018 and will be largely complete infrastructure. A long-term strategic	in 2021. The first towns and cities partnership between Vodafone and	to benefit from the roll out will CityFibre is the market’s response	be announced over the coming to this challenge. It will bring gigabit-	months and the first customers
capable full-fibre broadband to up	connected towards the end of 2018. to five million homes and businesses
by 2025, comprising 50 per cent of the government’s target.



















156

Data

Our country has world-class data, from the highest quality geospatial and climatic analysis to company information.

We are committed to making this data available to innovators and businesses throughout the UK to create products and services that will transform our economy and society. We want the UK to be the best place
to start and run a digital business. Strengthening public confidence in data, and giving greater clarity to business, will support measures to help the tech industry to flourish,
reinforcing the UK’s position as one of the world’s leading digital economies.
We are working to improve collaboration on data sharing between agencies, for example,
between HM Revenue and Customs, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Local Enterprise Partnerships and Growth Hubs to support the objectives of the industrial strategy.
 For example, we will explore means of identifying businesses with scale up potential, and encouraging them to access the support available to help them reach their potential. We are working to harness data
from across the government to identify those businesses with greater propensity
to successfully export, and to provide them with
‘We are committed to making our world- class data available to innovators
and businesses throughout the UK to create products and services that will transform
our economy and society.’
The UK has some of the best geospatial data in the world, much of it held by public bodies. To make the most of the value of this data, support the growth of the digital economy and
consolidate the UK’s position as the best place to start and grow a digital business, the government will establish a new Geospatial Commission to provide strategic oversight of the various public bodies that hold this data.










157


Case study: Transport for London – Turning Data into Knowledge
For almost 10 years, Transport for	` Two-way data - TfL receives London (TfL) has been releasing		significant data from those it open and free data on timetables,		shares with, gaining an better service status and disruption. This		understanding of journeys in
has created a market for developers	London to improve operations; and
to deliver more than 600 apps that	` High-value job creation - It directly have revolutionised users’ journeys.		supports around 500 jobs, with Deloitte estimates that the release of		a further 230 indirect jobs in the open data by TfL is generating annual		supply chain and wider economy economic benefits and savings of up		that have also been created.
to £130m for travellers, London and
TfL itself163. Use of TfL’s open data	The benefits are illustrated by provides the following benefits:	Citymapper, which provides its users
` Saved time for passengers -	across 40 cities with a smart view Greater certainty of when the	of how to travel to their destination. next bus or Tube will arrive	Based on data generated by the
is saving time equivalent to	app, Citymapper have sought to
£70m to £90m per year;	route public transport in a way which optimises user need and has
` Creating commercial opportunities	been granted a six-month license for third party developers -	to operate a weekend night bus Access to data has increased the	route between London stations. contribution of developers to the
London economy of between
£12m and £15m per year;

















158

To further boost the digital economy, the government will work with Ordnance Survey (OS) and the new Commission, by May 2018, to establish how to open up freely OS MasterMap data to UK-based small businesses in particular,
under an Open Government Licence or through an alternative mechanism, while maintaining the
OS’s strategic strengths. We are providing £80m over the next two years to support this work.

£80m
over the next two years
to support our work in data

We are exploring how the government can best facilitate conditions for secure, trusted, personal identity assurance in
the private sector. The digital economy relies on trust to work effectively
– transactions can be approved and paid for with a digital signature; property and goods can be transferred; entrance and access to resources or premises can be permitted or prevented. Getting this
 right will remove friction and allow businesses and government to run more quickly, simply and securely
– helping realise the potential of the UK’s digital economy and increasing productivity.
‘Now is the right time to harness the growing momentum around data-driven technologies, placing the UK at the cutting edge of trusted
and innovative deployment of data.’
innovative use of data and AI. This will lay the foundations for AI adoption which could benefit households across the UK by up to £2,300 per year by 2030164, and ensure that we maximise the positive impact of these technologies on our economy and
society. Now is the right time to harness the growing momentum around data- driven technologies, placing the UK at the cutting edge of trusted and innovative deployment of data.





159




Minimising business energy costs and raising resource productivity



Minimising business energy costs
The framework for achieving clean growth and affordable energy was set out in the recent Clean Growth Strategy and sits at the heart of this
Industrial Strategy. The government is committed to minimising energy costs for businesses, to ensure our economy remains strong and competitive. We recognise that our industrial electricity costs are currently higher than those of our competitors. We will act to address this by taking steps to reduce costs both now and in the future.
Minimising costs in the short term
We already provide substantial compensation to eligible energy intensive industries for the cumulative costs of energy and climate policies, reducing the impact of these policies on their electricity bills by up to around 80 per cent. We are moving from a system of compensation to one of exemption for some of these costs,
to make the cost saving more direct and easier for industry to access.
We will consult on widening eligibility for the exemption schemes for energy intensive industries to address potential intra-sectoral competitive distortions, taking into consideration the impact on consumer bills. As state aid considerations for the Feed- in-Tariff scheme will take longer to
 resolve, current compensation will remain in place in the meantime.
We will encourage greater investment in energy efficiency measures and technologies, including by developing a new scheme to support investment in industrial energy efficiency, to help large businesses install measures that will cut their energy use and bills, as well as improving their productivity.
We will develop a package of measures to support businesses to further improve their energy productivity
and will consult on this in 2018.
Our goal is to enable business and industry to improve energy efficiency by at least 20 per cent by 2030.
We are consulting on the design of a new £18m programme to support investment in the recovery and re-
use of heat from industrial processes, leading to lower bills, and potentially new revenue streams for industry.
Medium term
Competition in contracts for clean power generation is already driving down costs: the costs of offshore wind have fallen by half since 2015165. We will carefully consider the findings of Professor Dieter Helm’s independent review into energy costs in the power sector, and take further action to reduce costs where appropriate.




160











The Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan launched this year aims to save
consumers and businesses up to £40bn cumulatively over coming decades.
We will continue to update this to keep pace with developing technology.
Longer term
Innovation is crucial to reducing costs over the long-term. We will invest over £2.5bn in low carbon innovation by 2021 as set out in the Clean Growth Strategy.
We are investing up to £100m to support innovation in low carbon industrial processes and technologies such as carbon capture, use and storage, and
electrification, and we will develop a framework to support the long-term development of these processes.
We will explore further opportunities to support innovation and cost reduction through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, through the negotiation of Sector Deals,
161
 Raising resource productivity
We will support businesses’ long- term productivity through innovative approaches to resource efficiency. We will position the UK as a world leader in sustainably maximising the value we extract from our resources, while minimising the negative impacts of their extraction, use and disposal.
We will take further measures to strengthen the markets for secondary materials, and in 2018 we will publish a new resources and waste strategy
UK as one of the best
the economic benefits fprolamcesgtroesatatertrand resource productivity. Agsropwaratbousfinthesiss work, we will work with industry to explore options to introduce electronic tracking of waste. This will support the development of new markets for waste materials and improve the efficiency of enforcement, creating a level playing field for the waste and resources sector This will build on the foundations set out in our 25 Year Environment Plan.

Industrial Strategy White Paper




Business Environment










































162

The availability of high quality infrastructure is essential for our lives, work and
future growth and prosperity.

















163




Business Environment

To be the best place to start and grow a business.

The United Kingdom has a global reputation as a good place to do business. A new business starts up every 75 seconds, and we are home to five of the top 10 fastest-growing businesses in Europe. People looking
to grow or relocate a business come to Britain confident in our high corporate standards. The OECD ranks us as one of the best places to start and grow a business; we have the most competitive tax rates and we are welcoming to global talent and disruptive start-ups.
Our challenge is to improve how we spread the best practice of our most productive businesses. We are one of the world’s great financial centres, yet growing businesses sometimes face difficulty in accessing finance.
 Our managers are, on average, less proficient than many competitors, and we should make better connections between high-performing businesses and their supply chains.
Our Industrial Strategy aims to make Britain the best place to start and grow a business, and a global draw for innovators. We will drive productivity in businesses of all sizes by increasing collaboration, building skills and ensuring everyone has the opportunity of good work and high-paying jobs. We
will ensure the financial sector is better connected to the rest of the economy, driving impactful investments. We
will create a business environment equipped for the challenges and opportunities of new technologies and ways of doing business.




Key policies include:
` launch and roll-out Sector Deals – partnerships between government and industry aiming to increase sector productivity. The first Sector Deals are in life sciences, construction, artificial intelligence and the automotive sector
` drive over £20bn of investment in innovative and high potential businesses, including through establishing a new £2.5bn Investment Fund, incubated
in the British Business Bank.
` a review of what actions could be most effective in improving productivity of SMEs, including how to address the ‘long tail’ of less productive businesses.

164








Britain’s prosperity is founded on being an open, liberal free-trading economy in which new businesses can be created easily; existing businesses can attract investment from our world-class financial system and investors can act with confidence in the quality of our corporate standards.
The British business environment is one of the most admired globally as one of the best places to start, locate and grow a business166. A new business starts in Britain every 75 seconds. We are home to some of the biggest, most respected businesses, including half of the top 10 fastest-growing businesses in Europe167. The first foundation of our Industrial Strategy is to maintain
and enhance the business environment that is so essential to the UK’s success.
In the past, industrial strategy came to be associated with attempts by the government to control business through
 nationalising, subsidising, protecting and directing large parts of the economy. This modern Industrial Strategy, learning the lessons of the past and drawing on the detailed, wide-ranging response to our Green Paper, charts a different approach.
The role of the government is not to pick favourites and subsidise or protect them; rather, it is to ensure that the British business environment is shaped by competition and contestability in which the best businesses of all sizes can thrive. No incumbent
	•	‘A new business starts up in Britain every 75 seconds, and we are home to... half of the top 10 fastest-growing businesses in Europe.’
Most of the interventions set out in this paper apply across the whole economy, and to
a wide range of businesses.






165






30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
-40%
Percentage change in the number of new businesses created between 2007 and 2015
UK
France Sweden Netherlands
Norway Canada
Denmark Portugal
New Zealand Russia
Finland USA
Australia Germany
Iceland Spain
Belgium Italy
The UK’s record in creating new businesses compared to other countries
Source: OECD (2016) “Entrepreneurship at a Glance 2016”



A significant improvement in our level of technical skills, the upgrading of our infrastructure, investing in research and development (R&D) and realising the full potential of communities are long- term commitments to all businesses, current and future. Some sectors
that will shape our lives in the years ahead have not yet been created; they will come with future technologies and entrepreneurial endeavours.
 
We must build on our strengths, as exemplified by sectors such as automotive, aerospace, financial and professional services, creative industries and life sciences. Their success has often been enhanced
through collaboration – by businesses, the government, research institutions, universities and colleges – to align policies, enhance investments and create sector-wide institutions.






166

Building on our strengths



We are ranked as one of the best places in the world
to start and grow a business168



Over 1,100businesses start every day in Britain - or one every 75 seconds169


We are now home to half of the top 10 fastest growing companies
in Europe170



The number one destination in Europe for inward investment171
 ‘Britain’s  prosperity is founded on being an open, liberal free- trading economy in which new businesses can be created easily.’




fifth
in the Global Innovation Index172








167



Over the last decade successive governments have developed a partnership approach to working with sectors. This is exemplified by the Office of Life Sciences, and the
creation of the jointly-funded Advanced Propulsion Centre and Aerospace Technology Institute. We want to build on past successes and to ensure we are working effectively with existing and emerging sectors; helping to identify where specific interventions can help raise productivity.


 Our national approach to the business environment must be mirrored
at local level so that our cities, towns and counties can attract and cultivate successful businesses.
For most of the last century, Britain experienced a shift in power from our cities, towns and counties towards the capital. The tide has started to turn through City Deals, Growth Deals, Devolution Deals and creating Mayoral Combined Authorities. Power is beginning to shift from Whitehall.
Local Enterprise Partnerships in England have provided a platform for

19%
 is the UK corporation tax rate
 local leaders and businesses to shape policies for their area. Our Green Paper consultation made clear the enthusiasm for increased local decision making.
The role for communities throughout

We will ensure that this approach is available to other sectors. No sectoral initiatives should be a strategy for incumbency, and we will openly encourage future businesses
as well as existing players. Our City Deals, which give powers to help a region support economic growth, create jobs or invest in local projects, have done much to bring people together
– from Aberdeen and the Tees Valley to the West Midlands and Cambridge – over the last six years.
Our proposal in the Green Paper for Sector Deals met with an
extraordinary and positive response.
 the country in driving productivity is a major component of our Industrial Strategy. Enhancing the business environment locally is a key objective in our push for further devolution.
In enhancing our business environment nationally and locally, there are a number of components that the consultation on the Green Paper revealed to be of particular importance.










168

Access to finance


Britain is well-placed as one of the world’s great financial centres, with access to a deep pool of capital and domestic and overseas investors
attracted to our reputation as a rigorous jurisdiction.
However, we have not made the most of this advantage in providing access to finance for growing businesses.
 The government’s Patient Capital Review consultation estimated that if the UK had the same level of investment as the US, total venture capital investment in UK businesses would
be £4bn more per year173. There is also evidence of extreme regional disparities, with over 70 per cent of investment in 2016 made
in the south east174.


Diffusion of good practice


Britain’s relatively poor recent record in productivity is not uniform. We have some of the world’s most productive businesses, but research shows that we have an unusually ‘long tail’ of underperforming businesses, pulling the average down.
We are not as good as other countries at
spreading the best practice of our top performers.
The Bank of England has carried out extensive work176 to understand the key factors for improvement.
 One is greater access to management skills. Studies suggest that the average UK manager is less proficient than many overseas competitors177, while management skills could account for a quarter of the productivity gap between the UK and the US178. Another
‘Our City Deals, which give powers to help
a region support economic growth, create jobs or invest in local projects, have done much to bring people together.’









169

























			1-9 empl.	10-49 empl.	50-249 empl.	250+ empl.
-10	0	10	20	30	40	50	60	70	80	90	100
Productivity, GVA per worker
0%
Distribution of real business-level GVA per worker by business size bands
2.5%

2.0%

1.5%

1.0%

0.5%
Productivity distribution by business size
Non-frontier
Frontier
2014
2012
2010
2008
2006
2004
2002
Total
£0
£100
£200
£300
Productivity gap between the UK’s frontier and non-frontier businesses
£400
Productivity gap between the UK’s frontier and non-frontier businesses
Thousands
Distribution
























Source: Haldane, A (2017) “Productivity puzzles” speech, London School of Economics, 20 March.
*Frontier defined as top 5% of businesses by GVA per worker in a given year

170

Tackling our productivity challenge

‘Imagine [if] productivity growth in the second, third and fourth quartiles of the distribution of UK firms’ productivity could be boosted to match the productivity of the quartile above. That sounds ambitious but achievable. Arithmetically, that would deliver a boost to aggregate UK productivity of around 13 per cent, taking the UK to within 90-95 per cent of German and French levels of productivity respectively’175.
Andrew Haldane, chief economist at the Bank of England.


Some of the biggest opportunities for raising productivity come in sectors of the economy that have lower average productivity levels, but where many people work and which are vital to our economy.
We will work closely with sectors such as hospitality, retail and tourism on each of the foundations of productivity in order to be able to progressively drive up the earning power of people employed in these industries and enhancing our national productivity.




Parts of the UK economy are unusual in having underdeveloped domestic supply chains.
Fixed capital investment is another factor important to productivity growth.
The UK’s investment rate
 is lowest in the G7179. Many UK businesses, including large listed businesses, are not investing as much as our competitors’ businesses in skills, technology
‘We are not as good as other countries at spreading the best practice of our top performers.
One [factor] is greater access to management skills.’












171


Fixed capital investment in the UK compared to other G7 countries
Fixed Capital Investment as a percentage of GDP for G7 countries
25%

23%

20%

18%

15%

13%
2005	2007	2009	2011	2013	2015	2017
Japan	US	Canada	France	Germany	G7 Avg	Italy	UK

Source: OECD (2017) “Quarterly National Accounts 2017”. Fixed Capital Investment is gross fixed capital formation

Entrepreneurship and scale-ups



Whilst some small businesses are happy to stay small, and are a valued part of the economy, many have
the opportunity to improve their productivity. Entrepreneurs are adding to the millions of small and medium sized businesses throughout Britain that make a very significant contribution to our country through taxes, employing people and through the value of the goods and services they provide.
However, it is right to give attention to the ambitious, high potential small and medium sized businesses that are so critical to jobs and productivity180.
 We have a great record on start-ups: over 40 businesses are created in Britain every hour and research found that the UK ranks third amongst OECD countries for start-ups181. This
is supported by a tax environment that rewards entrepreneurship. But as the Patient Capital Review identified, we could do better in the longer-term process of building up successful businesses to reach large-scale and as
the Scale-Up Taskforce has highlighted, more can be done to increase the number of businesses that achieve their full potential.



172

Case study: Scale-Up Champion and Scale-Up Taskforce


In the Industrial Strategy Green Paper we announced the Business Minister Margot James MP as the Scale-Up Champion and established the Scale- Up Taskforce, co-chaired by entrepreneur Sahar Hashemi. The taskforce was set up to explore what more the government, working alongside the private sector, can do to help businesses scale up.
Supporting the development of the Industrial Strategy, the Scale-Up Taskforce prioritised four areas:
 ` better use of government and privately held business data to identify and target growing businesses when they need additional support;
` enhanced leadership and management capability and access to talent;
` greater awareness, and more take up, of equity finance and capital to help founders invest in business growth; and
` improved access to markets; through international trade, opportunities
‘Entrepreneurs are adding to the millions of small and medium sized businesses throughout
Britain that make a very significant contribution to our country.’




We need to make it easier for businesses of any size, in any location, to access finance. More opportunities
to operate in an environment with advice and challenge, especially from other entrepreneurial business people, can help businesses succeed initially and through their stages of development. And we know that universities and colleges have more scope to be both the originators and propagators
 of new businesses. As discussed in the Ideas chapter, there is potential for universities to generate even greater economic value from research, for example through intellectual property licensing and spin out businesses. We need
to make sure universities have the resources and skills to commercialise opportunities and attract the investment required.



173


Exports



Being an open, outward-facing economy can drive up competition. Exports and imports amounted to 58 per cent of GDP in 2016, with UK exports valued at nearly £550bn182. As we leave the European Union and negotiate new trade deals, we should
build on our strong record and ensure
 our businesses can access markets and bring in the returns. Businesses that export account for 60 per cent of the UK’s annual productivity growth183, deliver stronger employment growth and pay higher wages than those that don’t.


Case Study: DigitalGenius – A cutting-edge AI company on an export journey
DigitalGenius brings practical	huge increase in messaging volume applications of artificial intelligence	from social media channels. Agents (AI) into the customer service	are supported by the AI to provide operations of some major global	more efficient, better service for the businesses. Its customer service	customer, while the AI learns from platform combines the best of human	every interaction.
and machine intelligence, enabling	A focus on exports has been a key businesses to live up to and exceed	part of the company’s business rising consumer expectations. The	plan from the start - and with the platform automates and increases	support of government, has enabled the quality and efficiency of customer	DigitalGenius to grow from 20 to
support across communication	60 employees in one year, building
channels like email, chat, social media	software that is currently powering
and mobile messaging.	over 30 contact centres around the
One of DigitalGenius’s main clients	world. is a major airline company, who has
used the platform to help customer service agents to cope with the









174

The competitive and regulatory environment


Government policy and the regulatory environment can be pivotal to a good business environment. According to the World Bank, the UK is the seventh best country
in the world to do business, and a leader among major economies in the EU184.
Our tax rates are competitive. Since 2010, the UK corporation tax rate has been reduced from 28 per cent to 19 per cent, the lowest overall rate among G20 countries. It is
easy to start a new business, and our competition policy is geared to ensuring that
almost all sectors are subject to positive competitive forces. Where competition
is inadequate, economic regulators promote entry and simulate competitive pressure.
The integrity of UK law and the impartiality of our
professional bodies are prime reasons why businesses throughout the world choose to locate or conduct their business in this country.
We continue to review and refresh our standards to lead and reflect social change,
 such as our proposals for corporate governance and mergers. This is done with respected institutions such as the Bank of England and the Takeover Panel.
New technologies, new ways of doing business and new industries often require
‘Businesses that export account for 60 per cent of the UK’s annual
productivity growth, deliver stronger employment growth and pay higher wages than those that
do not.’
The right business environment demands a regulatory system responsive to not only today’s economy but to the future economy
as well. We are committed to this aim.





175



We are determined to have the right support for small businesses. Smaller businesses, without the clout of scale, can suffer disproportionally from heavy-handed regulation
and bureaucratic excess. They can also find themselves exposed to detrimental behaviours – intentional or otherwise – by larger businesses that are their suppliers and customers.
In recognition of this, the government has worked with small business representative organisations, including the Federation of Small Businesses,

Good work

High standards in the business environment also apply to people’s working conditions. Workers in Britain should expect to be treated well: highly productive employers not only pay their workforce well, but also invest in their staff through training and development, good terms and conditions and opportunities to participate in
the way the business is run.
We should be proud of the way our flexible labour market has created more jobs than ever before, and that the experience of work for most people is positive and empowering. The National Minimum Wage and National Living Wage have provided help to people on lower wages. When tax levels and tax credits are taken into account, average take home pay for families with a member in full- time employment is higher in the UK than the rest of the G7 nations185.
 the British Chambers of Commerce and the Institute of Directors, to set up the first Small Business Commissioner. The Commissioner’s remit includes helping small businesses on payment issues, dispute resolution and sourcing advice. Alongside sector-specific support, such as the Groceries Code Adjudicator and the Pubs Code Adjudicator, we are committed to providing assistance for smaller businesses in asserting themselves amid the larger players in the economy.





If we are to embrace the new ways of working that technological advances offer, it is essential that our workforce should be confident that they will not be mistreated. That is why the Prime Minister asked Matthew Taylor, the Chief Executive of the Royal Society of Arts, to examine the opportunities and risks around modern working practices.
The commissioning of the Matthew Taylor review – and our intention to act on its recommendations – makes the UK one of the first countries in the world
to examine how to ensure everyone benefits from the technological revolution. We should look to take up the opportunity this change brings to our working lives – for work that is fair and decent, with realistic scope for development and fulfilment. We start by setting out our ambition for good work in the ‘People’ section of this paper.




176

The role of government


The business environment we seek – to be the best place for businesses to start and grow, that encourages better productivity and supports higher wages
and good work for all – involves an active role for the government.
Alongside its responsibility for regulation and taxation, the public sector provides or funds many of the foundations of productivity
– including education, vocational training, transport and other infrastructure, and some scientific research.
Its procurement of around
£270bn a year of goods, works and services, from pharmaceuticals to IT, has a major impact on the private sector186.

£270bn
of public sector procured goods, works and services has a major impact on the private sector

The government must use its powers and make its decisions recognising
 the commitments of our Industrial Strategy.
This means businesses should expect consistent, strategic action from government to secure clear long-term objectives and ensure policies in different areas are not at odds, but align properly to give mutual support.
An active government will also be alert to new
‘Highly productive employers not only pay their workforce well, but also invest in their staff
through training and development, good terms and conditions and opportunities to participate in the way the business is run.’
of our economy. We have no qualms about seeking to establish and maintain positive relationships with interested investors, be they UK or overseas
businesses, and continually promoting, reviewing and refreshing our offer as a place to do business.





177






























Ensuring that firms can access finance is essential to their investment, growth and success





A strong theme to responses to our Green Paper was that businesses should be able to deal with the government without having to navigate different approaches by different government departments. Every part of government should be encouraging and offering partnership. Businesses should feel they have a positive relationship with officials and ministers who listen to, understand and assist them.
 We are determined to create in the government the most effective champion and partner of business in the developed world – an ambition which demands changes in organisation and practice.

Industrial Strategy White Paper








178

Our approach
Our ambition to make the UK the best place to start and grow a business requires us
to safeguard the things we do that already contribute to our success, and to act where necessary to make us even more attractive.

We will drive up productivity; provide more opportunities for better, higher paying jobs; and shape our business environment to take on the challenges and opportunities of new technologies and new ways of doing business,
especially as we leave the EU.
Our Industrial Strategy is for the long term, and not all
 our future reforms can be captured in this paper. We are committed to continuous improvement on the path set out in this strategy, and as befits its emphasis on innovation, we will pilot some reforms locally. This allows a wide range of innovation to be tested, and the lessons to be learned and applied.


Acting on our commitments


To support high-growth innovative businesses to achieve their potential, we have launched an action plan to drive over £20bn of investment into these businesses over the next 10 years by:
` establishing a new £2.5bn investment fund incubated in the British Business Bank to be floated or sold once it has established a sufficient track record. The fund, through  co-investment with the private sector, will
 unlock a total of £7.5bn investment, ensuring businesses can get access to the capital they need to scale up and become world leaders;
‘We are determined to create in the government the most effective champion and partner of business in the world
– an ambition which demands changes in organisation and practice.’




179



` investments, together unlocking over
£7bn of new investment;
` seeding a series of private sector fund of funds of scale, with a first wave of investment of up to £500m, delivered through the British Business Bank, unlocking double this investment
in private capital. Up to two further waves will be launched, attracting a total of up to £4bn of investment;
` backing first-time and emerging fund managers through the British Business Bank’s established Enterprise Capital Fund programme, supporting at least £1.5bn of new investment; and
` backing overseas investment in UK venture capital, expected to drive £1bn of investment.
We will also support long-term investment by:
` giving pension funds confidence that they can invest in assets supporting innovative businesses as part of a diverse portfolio. With over £2tn in UK pension funds, small changes
in investment have the potential to transform the supply of capital to innovative businesses;
` changing the qualifying rules in Entrepreneurs’ Relief to remove the disincentive to accept external investment and consulting on the detailed implementation of that change;
` launching a National Security Strategic Investment Fund of up to £85m to invest in advanced
technologies that contribute to our
 national security missions; and
` continuing to work with industry and regulators to introduce better and more transparent reporting by
listed businesses on how their capital allocation decisions affect their productivity and by promoting more long-term investor stewardship. We will also take forward commitments announced recently following our Corporate Governance Reform Green Paper, including measures to better align executive pay with long-term company performance
And we will promote investment in all parts of the country by:
` launching a commercial investment programme run by the British Business Bank to support developing clusters of business angels outside London;
` identifying ways to tackle barriers faced by female-led businesses in accessing venture capital through new behavioural research commissioned by the British Business Bank; and
` rolling out a network of British Business Bank regional managers by autumn 2018 to ensure businesses across the UK know how to access sources of investment. The network will cover England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, with managers responding to a region’s particular needs and acting as convenors to improve collaboration, sharing of expertise and the creation of networks of private and public partners.




180

We will also support businesses to get access to debt finance by extending the British Business
Bank’s Enterprise Finance Guarantee to March 2022 and expanding the programme to support up to £500m of loans a
year. We will also work with businesses, lenders, insurers, the British Business Bank and the Intellectual Property Office to overcome the barriers facing high growth, intellectual property-rich businesses.

£20bn
investment into high
growth, innovative businesses over ten years

£2.5bn
investment fund to be
incubated in the British Business Bank
 To increase the diffusion of best practice so that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have the tools to become more productive, we will:
` trial innovative approaches to driving up the adoption of modern business practices. Through  the new Business Basics Programme, we will work closely with Innovate UK, Be the Business, and local areas, including mayors, leading businesses and trade associations, to test and encourage SMEs to adopt technologies and practices such as new accountancy software or performance management systems. We will work
‘We will promote investment in all parts of the country by launching
a commercial investment programme run by the British Business Bank to support developing clusters outside London.’
enhancing management practices and improving skills. This will build on their research capability and dissemination of evidence.

















181


Case Study: The Productivity Leadership Group and Be the Business
In July 2015 some of Britain’s most	Alongside this, the PLG has also senior business leaders came	developed a pioneering programme, together to form the Productivity	Productivity through People. Through Leadership Group (PLG). Their aim	this, large businesses (such as BAE was to identify practical steps to	Systems, GlaxoSmithKline, John
raise productivity among British	Lewis Partnership, Rolls-Royce and businesses. At Autumn Statement	Siemens) reach out to SMEs in their 2016, the government announced	supply chain, inviting them to a
up to £13m funding over three years	12-month co-funded development to support the group’s work, which	programme. This is driven by focuses on improving productivity	business schools in the region and through the diffusion of best practice	aims to improve SME skills to boost
- including management practices	their productivity. Productivity and technology.	through People will be scaled a
In July 2017, PLG launched the ‘Be	cross a number of regions over the the Business’ campaign. This aims	next year.
to help businesses across the UK	To learn more about Be the Business, benchmark their current level of	see: www.bethebusiness.com productivity, access best practice
advice and improve through structured management training.



` ensure all businesses have access to a local Growth Hub. Over the last three years, we have established and tested Growth Hubs in every Local Enterprise Partnership area in England. We will build on this programme, providing continued funding to enable Growth Hubs to bring public and private sector partners together, such as UK Research and Innovation, the British Business Bank, Tech Nation, investors and universities. We want Growth Hubs to carry on building their reach, developing peer-to-peer networks,
 connecting businesses to the best support available from the private and public sectors. We will also work with Local Enterprise Partnerships,
Growth Hubs, universities and the private sector to support high potential businesses to scale up.
We will launch a review of what actions could be most effective in improving productivity and growth of SMEs, including how to address what has been called ‘long tail’ of lower productivity firms. This will include reviewing the




182

evidence and evaluating the role of digital services, data and information in the take up of effective business advice and support services. We
will announce the policies we intend to take forward following this review in Autumn 2018.
We will also work with partners to pilot and evaluate the role that customer feedback and online ratings marketplaces could play in making it easier for SMEs to assess the quality of advice. This will start in the first half of 2018.
Manufacturing is crucial to the economy, providing 10 per cent of the UK’s GVA187, generating around 50 per cent of our exports188 and accounting for 70 per cent of business-led R&D189. However, advanced manufacturing supply chains are highly complex, with components sometimes crossing borders several times. Our departure from the EU, and any resulting trade arrangements, will create challenges and opportunities for the supply chain and many firms are recognising the benefits of local supply chains.
To boost our supply chains, secure internationally mobile investment and anchor high
 value manufacturing in the UK we will:
` launch a new Supply Chain Competitiveness programme that will target
areas where key businesses need to improve to match the best in Europe and beyond, supporting training and enhanced business processes.
` encourage industry leaders and the best performing sectors to improve further by adopting best practice as exemplified by the automotive sector. The automotive sector intends to commit to increasing local content to 50 per cent by 2022, from 44 per cent, as part of their proposed Automotive Sector Deal.
‘The automotive sector intends to commit to increasing local content from 44 per cent to 50 per cent by 2022, as part of their proposed Automotive Sector Deal.’
` working with business to undertake a review of
export strategy, reporting in spring 2018. The review, as well as the GREAT Britain campaign, will ensure the government has the right financial, practical and promotional support in place for new and existing exporters to sell overseas. The review will convene expertise from across




183



` government and the private sector, including:
-better support for medium and larger businesses to access new markets and export more;
-identifying smaller businesses with the potential to succeed and grow as exporters;
-better signposting to online and local sources of information, and access to finance;
-working with the private sector to ensure all businesses receive high quality export advice; and
-strengthening government-to- government relationships to realise new export opportunities.
` establishing a network of nine UK Trade Commissioners, each developing a regional trade plan covering export promotion, investment  and trade policy;
 ` building on the new UK Export Finance (UKEF) initiatives, which work with partner banks to help businesses fulfil overseas contracts. UKEF will introduce a new guarantee to banks designed to increase liquidity in the supply chain.
This will improve exporters’ access to capital and enable their suppliers to fulfil new orders. UKEF will also launch a targeted campaign to promote the support they offer to exporters and overseas buyers, as part of the wider GREAT campaign;
` bringing together businesses of all sizes to bid for global infrastructure contracts as a single ‘Team UK’ consortium, with the potential for support from UK Export Finance and through supply chain fairs. We are considering other ways to support British consortia, including expanding the approach to other sectors;


£267m boost to
 	  the local economy
1,254 start-up loans
Offered intensive, face- to-face support to over 8,600 businesses
17,052 jobs
Built a network of over
34,000 businesses
...and since 2013 it has achieved the following outcomes across its ten Local Authorities:
Since 2011,
Business Growth Hub has...
The Impact of Greater Manchester Business Growth Hub

184

Case Study: Monster Group (UK) – A High Growth business and graduate of Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses UK programme


Established in 2007, Monster Group (UK) is an online retailer based in York, selling a wide range of products from popcorn makers to shelving units. Through Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses UK, CEO Rana Harvey
re-evaluated the business’ processes and strategy.
By applying tools learned on the programme,
she reduced her order processing time from 29 minutes to less than two minutes. As part of the revitalised strategy, Rana rebranded her business from ‘Dazzling Dummies’ to ‘Monster Group (UK)’, embracing a more diverse product range.
Since Rana graduated from Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses UK in 2012, the businesses’ revenues increased by over 330 per cent. In
 November 2015, Rana
purchased a 90,000 square foot warehouse in North Lincolnshire to run alongside her premises in York, allowing her
to drastically increase the business’ product offerings. She also set up a research and R&D centre in York, resulting in more efficient product development and
increasing the company’s competitiveness in the market.
‘[We will establish] a network of
nine UK Trade Commissioners, each developing a regional trade plan covering export promotion, investment and trade policy.’
Businesses programme – I was focused on driving international sales. The strategy and operations management modules changed all of that”.













185




























We will support businesses to access international markets, drive up exports and improve productivity Image: Port of Felixstowe





` piloting intensive export growth support for potential scale-ups and particularly ambitious medium sized businesses. This includes co- investment to access commercial export support services, with each eligible business offered a grant on
a 50:50 match funded basis. We will work with Local Enterprise Partnership Growth Hubs to ensure joined up and easily accessible export and business growth advice;
 ` continuing to develop the great.gov.uk platform ensuring it meets the needs of more UK businesses. The platform already provides export opportunities, connections and overseas buyers, on- boarding onto e-commerce websites and attracts inward investors.
And we will help UK businesses to grow internationally through investing
overseas. The government is evaluating through pilots a suite of products and services to support businesses investing internationally, both through market entry and expansions.

Industrial Strategy White Paper






186

Already, UKEF has launched an updated Overseas Investment Insurance product which can help to manage risk for UK businesses.
As discussed above, our competition, legal and regulatory frameworks are fundamental to our
economic success. We have a reputation for a world- leading competition regime and our consumer protection framework encourages engaged, active consumers who drive high standards. We will build on this reputation, including by:
` providing the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) with an extra £2.8m a year, so it can take
on more cases against businesses that are acting unfairly, and will allow the CMA to use more of the fines it collects to meet the legal costs of defending its decisions. The government will ensure the UK has
the effective competition system it needs after the UK has left the EU;
` encouraging the CMA to identify, prioritise and tackle inadequate competition in low-productivity sectors that have an important impact on growth;
 ` publishing a review of the existing competition regime by April 2019, to make sure it is working as effectively as it can to support an enterprise economy; and;
` publishing a Consumer Green Paper that tackles areas where markets are not working for consumers and businesses















‘We will pilot intensive export growth support for potential scale-ups and particularly ambitious medium sized businesses.’






187


Strengthening partnerships with industry: The Food and Drink Sector
The UK has a thriving, world-	The opportunities – and challenges renowned food and drink sector,	for food and drink raised by exiting with products in demand across the	the EU are significant. To address this, globe, from Scotch Whisky to cheese,	we are committing to establishing confectionery and premium seafood.	a new partnership between
The sector plays a key part in all local	government and the whole food economies and devolved nations. It	chain, working with industry leaders is the largest manufacturing sector	from agriculture, food and drink
in the UK and the wider food chain	manufacturing, retail, hospitality and contributes £112bn GVA and employs	logistics. This new Food and Drink one in eight people across the	Sector Council will lead the work to UK. The enduring strength of the	secure the UK’s position as a global sector is built on strong agricultural	leader in sustainable, affordable, safe and manufacturing foundations.	and high-quality food and drink. An The sector is at the cutting edge	early task for this sector council will of innovation and world class	be to build on emerging proposals science from new technologies	for a sector deal in food and drink that raise agricultural productivity	manufacturing, including support to and resilience while reducing	transform exports and capitalise on environmental impact, to innovation	its unique innovation opportunities that prolongs shelf life, helping to	in sustainable agriculture and food reduce food waste.	manufacturing.



We must also make sure that regulation is as simple as possible for businesses. In England, we will continue to support businesses to comply with regulation at a local level. All businesses choosing to set up a Primary Authority partnership will have access to assured advice, with support from Growth Hubs. We will support Local Enterprise Partnerships in translating and co-ordinating regulatory frameworks that focus on local business needs, simplifying the way regulation is delivered.
 To ensure a fair landscape for business, we will go further on reforming business rates. On top of the major reforms to business rates announced at Budget 2016, worth approximately £9bn by the end of this Parliament, we will improve the fairness of the system and provide a further £2.3bn of support to businesses over the next five years.




188
















































‘All businesses choosing to set up a Primary Authority
partnership will have access to assured advice with support from Growth Hubs.’

















189



This additional support includes bringing forward to 1 April 2018 the planned switch in indexation from RPI to CPI and legislating retrospectively to address the so-called ‘staircase tax’.
Recognising the importance many consumers and workers place on the social contribution of businesses, we have also established the Inclusive Economy Partnership to address some of the biggest challenges that face our society, encouraging collaborations between business and civil society, enhancing the UK’s reputation as a global hub for social investment.
We will also take significant steps to advance the role of government and address the points raised in the Green Paper consultation.
We will:
` make it easier for businesses to get the information they need online by improving the way the government provides key information and support to business, alongside continued investment in the national Business Support Helpline; and
` make the government more streamlined, responsive and focused on delivering the highest value deals. To assist this, we will expand our existing account management approach, including the Strategic
Relationship Management programme to offer a single point of contact, coordinating HMG support, to a broader range of companies.
 We will attract investments from multinational and foreign businesses and make the most of the opportunity this presents not only to create thousands of well paid jobs across
the UK, but to drive up skills, increase investment in R&D and stimulate new technologies and ways of working. These companies drive up both their own productivity and wider domestic supply chains. We will:
` build on our recent successes and learn from international peers. We will work to target and support businesses to base high value investments and operations in the UK, particularly as we leave the European Union;
` work with local partners to target investments with the greatest economic potential. We will identify what support is needed to attract these companies, improving the ease, cost, speed and ultimately the value of bringing investment to the UK. We will change our primary measure of performance from the total number of projects coming to the UK, commonly used in international indices, to focus
on delivering projects that offer the UK the greatest economic impact;







190

` look to increase the level of R&D and innovation projects and high paid jobs coming to the UK. Of the world’s 2,500 top R&D investors, just 50 companies are responsible for 40 per cent of private sector investment globally190. We will work with our leading universities, research institutes and UK Research and Innovation to increase the proportion of R&D activity in these leading companies that takes place in the UK. UK-based R&D would increase by around
a third if we attracted an additional five per cent of funding from the world’s top 50 R&D investors;
` we will also increase the rate of R&D tax  credits for large firms (R&D Expenditure Credit)  from 11 per cent to 12 per cent from 1 January 2018 and provide businesses with the confidence to make R&D investment decisions through a new Advanced
Clearance Service for R&D credit claims; and
 ` we will explore how best to support multinational firms in locating their global and European headquarters
in the UK, if it can be demonstrated that locating their headquarters here would create the positive economic impact we would look for in all investments.

















‘We will attract investments [from abroad] and make the most of the opportunity this presents... to drive up skills, increase investment in R&D and stimulate new technologies and ways of working.’














191





























Rolls Royce Trent XWB engine production in Derby

Partnerships between the government and industry on sector- specific issues can create significant opportunities to boost productivity, employment, innovation and skills.

We know that these partnerships can work – from our experience of decade- long partnerships such as the Auto Council and the Office for Life Sciences to more recent collaborations including tourism, creative industries, space and professional and business services.
 In our Green Paper we suggested that we could build on this successful model of collaborative working, where specific sectors could come together under clear leadership and make a compelling case to negotiate a Sector Deal with the government to boost the earning power and productivity of that sector.

Industrial Strategy White Paper










192







The response to our suggestion of Sector Deals has been emphatic, not only in endorsing the concept but in generating a wide range of proposals. Of course there is no requirement for any sector to have a deal and
no deadline for concluding one but in recent months we have begun negotiations with some sectors about potential deals. These discussions have reinforced the enormous potential of
 the model, with some already showing tangible results.
Four of these discussions have concluded successfully with transformative Sector Deals. We are announcing Sector Deals with life sciences, construction, artificial intelligence and the automotive sector, with the creative industries, industrial digitalisation and a number of other sectors in advanced discussions.



Building on success: our partnership with the aerospace sector


The UK government is backing the aerospace sector and its strengths in productivity and innovation to secure a
share of the growing global market. The Aerospace Growth Partnership (AGP), a strategic partnership between the government and industry, is focused
on helping shape and influence a business environment that tackles barriers to growth, boosts exports and grows high value jobs for the UK aerospace sector.
In 2016, the government extended a funding
 commitment to aerospace research and development and the Aerospace Technology Institute, providing a decade of certainty. This gives industry confidence
‘The response to our suggestion of Sector Deals has been emphatic, not only in endorsing the concept but in generating a wide range of proposals.’
£4bn by 2026191. Such government-sector partnership supports technological innovation, promotes competitiveness, and anchors key manufacturers such as Airbus, Rolls-Royce and GKN in the UK.





193


Life Sciences Sector Deal

The government and the life sciences sector have agreed to a transformative, multi-billion pound Sector Deal, ensuring that the UK remains at the forefront of innovation in this sector.

The Sector Deal will help ensure new pioneering treatments and medical technologies are produced in the UK, improving patient lives and driving economic growth. The deal involves substantial investment from private and charitable sectors and significant commitments in research and development from the government.
The life sciences sector is highly productive and export focused, generating £64bn of turnover and employing more than 233,000 scientists and staff192. The UK is home to world-leading businesses such as GSK and AstraZeneca, a strong small
 and medium-sized business sector, major health charities such as the Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research UK, and the globally-admired NHS.
The Sector Deal builds on the Life Sciences Industrial Strategy, which Professor Sir John Bell led on behalf of the sector. Published in August 2017, it provided a vision where industry, the government, the NHS and charities can all contribute to make the UK an attractive location for businesses to invest and for patients to benefit. It is the first in a series of deals we intend to agree with the sector to realise this vision.

194




What is in the deal?
Reinforcing the UK Science offer
Following a long-term collaboration, Novo Nordisk this year has invested £115m in a diabetes research innovation centre in Oxford. Other new investments will be announced as a result of this deal, including:
MSD is announcing its commitment to establish a state of the art life sciences discovery research facility in the UK, focused on early bioscience discovery and entrepreneurial innovation. The new UK Discovery Centre is anticipated to accommodate 950 staff.
QIAGEN, a leading provider of molecular testing solutions that enable valuable insights to be gained from any biological sample, will partner with Health Innovation Manchester to develop a genomics and diagnostics campus. This will attract companies from across the world to the north west
of England. QIAGEN also plans to expand its existing operations in Manchester and this, alongside the genomics campus, has the potential to create 800 skilled jobs.
 
Health Advanced Research Programme
The Health Advanced Research Programme (HARP) is an ambitious shared endeavour, with the aim of finding solutions
to the major healthcare challenges of the next 20 years while also creating new UK industries; it is one that all parties, in particular charities, are committed to developing further in the coming months and years to realise fully its potential.
‘The Life Sciences sector is highly productive and export focused, generating £64 billion of turnover and employing more than 223,000 scientists and staff.’
including investment from the Industrial Strategy Challenge fund into an early diagnostics challenge.
Manufacturing
The deal is committed to growing life sciences manufacturing which, as
a major source of exports, makes a significant contribution to the UK economy.



195



Data
In response to the Life Sciences Industrial Strategy, the government will be working to develop a number of regional Digital Innovation Hubs that support the use of data for research
purposes within the legal framework and meet the strict parameters for sharing data and the security standards set out by the National Data Guardian. They
will create controlled environments for real-world clinical studies, the application of novel clinical trial methodology, and the comprehensive evaluation of new innovations so that patients can benefit from scientific breakthroughs much faster. NHS England, NHS Digital and Health Data Research UK will lead the delivery of this programme, drawing
 on input from multiple stakeholders including the academic sector, the life sciences industry, the charity sector and patients.
NHS Collaboration
This deal restates the commitment by the government for the NHS and industry to collaborate closely, an
invaluable feature of the UK life sciences landscape.
Skills
The government is committed to giving UK businesses the workforce they need to flourish while reinforcing the employer-led principles of the recent reforms to technical education.

196
The Construction Sector Deal will help build the houses, schools, hospitals, and major transport projects we need

Infrastructure and Clusters

This deal is committed to helping life sciences clusters flourish, such as
the Oxford-Milton Keynes- Cambridge corridor where the government is investing in housing and infrastructure
 projects. Further regional approaches, including in the north of England via the Northern Health Science Alliance, are expected for further phases of the deal.


Construction Sector Deal

The government and the construction sector, through the Construction Leadership Council and with the leadership of Andrew Wolstenholme, have agreed a Sector Deal
to transform the productivity of the sector benefiting the wider economy.

Construction is one of the largest sectors in the UK economy – with a turnover of £370bn194, contributing
£138bn in value added to the UK economy195 and employing 3.1 million people (9 per cent of the total UK workforce)196. The deal
will substantially boost the sector’s productivity,
through greater investment in innovation and skills, creating new and well-paid jobs
and maximising its export potential. This will also reduce the environmental impact, improve the efficiency and reduce whole life cost of new projects and buildings to help build the houses, schools, hospitals and major transport projects we need.
 What is in the deal?
‘Construction is one of the largest sectors in the economy
- with a turnover of £370bn, and
employing 3.1 million people.‘
Procuring for Value
In the months ahead the sector and the government will work to ensure construction projects across the public and private sectors are procured and built based on their whole life value, rather than just initial capital cost. The sector will aim
to develop a procurement standard and work with the Infrastructure and Projects Authority to develop cost and



197



performance benchmarks for assets and contractors and monitor outcomes including increased housing capacity, productivity and pre-manufactured value among other initiatives.
Industry-led Innovation
A joint commitment to invest in a transformative programme which brings together the construction, digital technology, manufacturing, materials and energy sectors to develop and commercialise digital and offsite manufacturing technologies.
This will accelerate change in the infrastructure and construction sector, ensuring new technologies that can help deliver the government’s planned investments in infrastructure and our 2015 commitment to deliver a million homes by the end of 2020 and half a
 million more by the end of 2022 are commercialised as quickly as possible.
Skills for the Future
The construction sector, with support from the government, will work closely in the coming months to drive increased investment in skills development, whilst adopting a more strategic and co- ordinated approach to recruitment, and equipping workers with the skills that they will need for the future. This will be achieved through a joint commitment to implement reforms to the Construction Industry Training Board to make it more strategic and industry led, and to enable the sector to make best use of funding from the Apprenticeship Levy.

198

Artificial Intelligence Sector Deal

The government and the artificial intelligence (AI) sector have agreed a Sector Deal to boost the UK’s global position as a leader in developing
AI technologies.

Taking immediate, tangible actions to advance our AI and Data-Driven Economy Grand Challenge, this deal will anchor the UK as the go-to destination for AI innovation and investment.
AI’s extraordinary potential is already well known: by one estimate it could add
£232bn to the UK economy by 2030197. The UK is a recognised world leader in developing AI: Deepmind, Babylon and Swiftkey – which was backed by Innovate UK
– are all globally renowned companies founded here.
The Sector Deal builds on the review by Professor Dame Wendy Hall and Jérôme Pesenti, Growing the artificial intelligence industry in
the UK, which involved an extensive range of business leaders, academics and research councils. The review made recommendations for both the government and industry, recognising the
role that the government can play in creating the conditions to support emerging sectors to grow.
 The deal will establish an enduring partnership
between industry, academia and the government through the UK Artificial Intelligence Council, where all partners will work together to promote the safe, fair application
of this technology. The deal contains mutual
commitments to encourage the responsible sharing of data to develop new value, and to ensure that the
UK produces and retains the best global talent.
‘[The AI Sector Deal] will anchor the UK as the go-to destination for AI innovation and investment.’
Realising the Potential of Data
The deal recognises the critical importance of data availability, and its responsible use, to
businesses at the forefront of the development of
AI applications. The government and industry will work together to establish data trusts, an innovative approach to stimulating
fair, safe and equitable data sharing between parties.



199

IInndduussttrriiaall SSttrraatteeggyy WWhhiittee PPaappeerr


A Skilled and Diverse Workforce
To be global leaders in the application of AI, companies must attract the talent they need. We are committed to working together to build and maintain the best AI workforce in Europe, focusing on post graduate level skills and above. We will invest
£45m to support additional PhDs in AI and related disciplines, create a prestigious artificial intelligence fellowship programme and work together to develop an industry- funded masters programme.
 Coordination and Uptake
For the economy to realise the benefits of AI, the sector and the government will coordinate action on solutions to shared challenges and opportunities through an AI Council, a new government Office for Artificial Intelligence, an expansion of Tech City UK to become Tech Nation and a new GovTech Fund.








Nissan Juke production line in Sunderland

Automotive Sector Deal

This Sector Deal builds on the government’s long-standing partnership with
the UK automotive sector.

It ensures that the UK continues to reap the benefits from the
transition to ultra-low and zero emission vehicles
by continuing to build the agile, innovative and cost competitive supply chain needed to secure internationally mobile investment and anchor
high value manufacturing in the UK.
The UK automotive sector is a great success story.
We are the third largest European car producer and have the highest productivity in Europe among major automotive producing nations198. The sector employs 159,000 people directly in vehicle manufacturing, with an additional 238,000 in the supply chain199, providing highly skilled, well paid jobs and increasing prosperity across the country.
Tighter environmental regulation and shifts in consumer demand are changing how cars are powered, while technology is changing how they are
 driven. The result is cleaner, safer and less congested journeys. This Sector
Deal ensures the UK is at the cutting edge of these innovations through the Faraday Battery Challenge and accelerating the development of a world- leading connected and
‘We are the third largest European car producer and have the highest productivity in Europe amongst the major automotive producing nations.’
What is in the deal?
The Sector Deal represents the next step in the partnership between the government and industry, building on what we have already achieved together and agreeing priorities to maximise opportunities
in the transition to electric, connected and autonomous vehicles.



201



Electrification
The automotive sector is an area of genuine competitive advantage to the UK and the sector is perfectly placed to take advantage of emerging
markets in ultra-low emission vehicles.
The government, through the Advanced Propulsion Centre, is already supporting the development of low carbon technologies that will form the basis of future vehicle supply chains.
In order to maintain our position as a global leader, the government and the industry have set out specific actions to build on this work.
Connected & autonomous vehicles (CAV)
The UK has an opportunity to assert global leadership in the demonstration and deployment of CAV technologies, capitalising on our position as a global leader in research and development, and our competitive advantage of being able to test anywhere in the UK today.
Our support for CAV will be co- ordinated under the MERIDIAN hub, which will seek to convene UK industry around a set of long-term strategic priorities that require long-term investment to ensure we remain at
the cutting edge of the industry.
 Supply Chain
The transition to ultra-low emission and CAV presents an opportunity to maximise the economic benefits to the UK supply chain. The close partnership
of the government and the industry has already led to significant improvements in the competitiveness of the UK
supply chain in recent years, increasing the level of UK content in nationally produced vehicles from 36 per cent
in 2011 to 44 per cent in 2016200.
Building on this, we are committing to rolling out an industry-led supplier improvement programme that will target areas where businesses need to improve to match the best in Europe. The programme will provide bespoke training and enhanced business processes to help build the vertically-integrated supply chain
we need in the UK to manufacture the future generation of vehicles at volume. This will support the sectoral ambition to increase the level of
UK content in nationally produced vehicles to 50 per cent by 2022.














202

Sector Deals in advanced discussions

The success of the Sector Deal approach is not just limited to the sectors where we have
agreed deals; some of the most exciting business- led proposals have come from sectors where we are continuing our negotiations to meet their ambitions.

Creative Industries


The creative industries sector, which makes up over five per cent of the UK
economy and employs more than two million people, is one of the fastest growing and contributes £87bn of GVA201. Deal discussions are ongoing, building on the comprehensive review led by Sir Peter Bazalgette202 which considered the needs of this diverse sector. The deal is subject to final agreement between the government and the sector, led in discussions by the Creative Industries Council with critical input from
the Creative Industries Federation and others from across the sector, but
significant progress has been made already across a wide range of potential areas
for agreement in the coming weeks.
 Innovation
Creative businesses are, by their very nature,
‘The creative industries sector, which makes up over five per cent of the UK economy and employs more than two million people
is one of the fastest growing, contributing
£87bn.‘
the businesses involved.





203


Creative Industries sector commitments
` Align private sector investment	Creative Clusters competition, behind the Industrial Strategy	with significant private sector Challenge Fund (ISCF) Immersive	investment coming from the technologies programme.	universities, regions and businesses
` Collaborate in the Arts and	involved. Humanities Research Council


Government commitments
` Invest in immersive technologies,	Research Council Creative Clusters such as virtual and augmented	competition and investment.
reality from the Industrial Strategy	` Establish a new national Creative Challenge Fund, allowing creative		Industries Policy and Evidence businesses to develop the products,		Centre to produce independent services and experiences of the		evidence to boost understanding future.		of the creative industries, including
` Support eight research partnerships	how they are working together
between creative businesses	in clusters and across the wider of all sizes and universities with	economy.
significant commercial potential through the Arts and Humanities



Alongside the commitments to enhancing innovation in creative industries, the government is also making a number of other significant commitments to the sector to support our ongoing negotiations. These include committing to extend support to the UK Games Fund to 2020, a proven approach to mentoring and developing the games developers of the future and our recent commitment to increase the number of available Tier
 
1 (Exceptional Talent) visas for non- EEA migrants, which will also support the creative industries to continue to attract the best and brightest talent.
Ongoing areas for negotiation
Ongoing discussions with a view to agreeing a deal are focusing on
how the government and sector can lift productivity and the growth of creative clusters further, such as by linking high-growth potential creative



204

businesses with investment opportunities in businesses with intellectual property. A further priority is exploring action to address access
to the right finance so creative businesses can scale up where demand is not always met by supply, because of well-recognised market failures, reflecting that creative businesses deal in intangibles. Given the sector’s reliance on intellectual property, the government and industry are discussing further joint action to strengthen the copyright framework.
Other areas featuring strongly in negotiations are how the government and industry can work
together to shape a creative industries-focused trade strategy to significantly
 increase exports and to ensure the talent pipeline creative businesses require is in place. We are currently in consultation with the industry to define a three-
year target for export growth plus we are discussing
a range of measures to attract, develop, and
retain the talent it needs, including an industry-led careers strategy. We will also explore opportunities to work with the Institute for Apprenticeships to prioritise apprenticeship standards development for the creative industries in areas where they are
‘Manufacturing accounts for around 50 per cent of UK exports and 70 per cent of R&D. The productivity of the sector has increased four times faster than the rest of the economy.‘
the Industrial Strategy.


Industrial Digitalisation and the Made Smarter Review


The UK manufacturing sector makes a significant contribution to the UK economy (£177bn GVA in 2016)203. Manufacturing accounts for over 50 per cent of UK exports 204 and over
70 per cent of R&D 205. The productivity of the sector has increased four times
 faster than the rest of the economy 206. But with the potential for growth and to build on the strength of our exports, the UK must not be complacent; digital technology presents the sector with a huge opportunity to increase productivity and growth as well as create new markets.




205



The application of digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence and robotics, data analytics and additive manufacturing have already made transformational improvements to productivity where businesses have exploited their potential, but the opportunity exists to go further.
The visionary and ambitious industry-led Made Smarter review207 into industrial digitalisation, led by Professor Juergen Maier, Chief Executive of Siemens UK, sets out the significant opportunities
to be gained by the development and adoption of these technologies across all UK manufacturing sectors. The Review projects a substantial increase in growth over the next
decade complemented by a reduction of CO2 emissions and an increase in skilled jobs throughout the economy by capitalising on industrial digitalisation.
The recommendations in the review emphasise how a strong partnership between manufacturing businesses and the government and a focus on

Nuclear

The nuclear sector is integral to increasing productivity and driving growth across the country. Nuclear is a vital part of our energy mix, providing low carbon power now and into the future. The safe and efficient
decommissioning of our nuclear legacy is an area of world-leading expertise. The nuclear sector, under the leadership of Lord Hutton, is in advanced discussions with the government on a range
 leadership, adoption and innovation of digital technologies, can make the UK a global leader in driving forward the fourth industrial revolution. The Review
describes how existing business support systems can be effectively co-ordinated and how people across the country
can access the training they need to take advantage of the skilled jobs that this transformation will generate.
On-going discussions between industry and the government on a Sector Deal are focused on how the ambitions set out in Made Smarter can be realised. We are discussing how we can build on existing pilot activities, align programmes in areas such as skills and R&D and coordinate
of institutions, such as Catapults and research bodies to help realise the opportunities Made Smarter highlights for manufacturing across the UK.









of ambitious proposals to increase competitiveness and achieve greater value at both national and regional levels.
Industry-led proposals for a Nuclear Sector Deal focus on how, working with the government, substantial cost reductions can be achieved across the UK’s new build and decommissioning
programmes. There are shared interests in improving productivity and the




206

opportunities to improve the UK’s competitiveness, domestic capability and export growth. The sector’s proposals cover the supply
chain, nuclear R&D and skills, where the aim of the deal is to help deliver the diverse
 workforce needed for the future, supporting a potential 100,000 jobs from Cumbria, north Wales, Somerset, Essex and Suffolk208.
Further details of our ongoing discussions will be announced in the coming weeks.


Working with other sectors


Since the publication of our Green Paper, a large number of industries have signalled their interest in a Sector Deal and we have been working with many of them in recent months. Some of these have been particularly impressive in their level of ambition and innovation,
but Sector Deals are not required for every sector. To aid the development of any further proposals, sectors should articulate
how they meet the criteria set out on the next page.
 A key expectation of these criteria is that any proposals align with our Industrial Strategy, including how they might demonstrate the commitment from certain sectors of the economy
to meeting the Grand Challenges we have set out in this document. We will be speaking to all those
‘Nuclear is a vital part of our energy mix, providing low carbon power now and into the future. The safe and efficient decommissioning of our nuclear legacy
is an area of world- leading expertise.‘
over the months ahead
and will be announcing that we intend to proceed with some further Sector Deal discussions in the New Year.


















207


Questions sectors should ask themselves as they develop their deal proposals


Is there clear leadership from the sector?
We have asked for deals to be	commitments in the deal. The proposed by an identifiable	sector’s leader or deal champion leader who can bring together an	should generally be a single individual appropriately broad representation	with sufficient authority in the
of the sector. A key part of that	industry to negotiate a deal’s content leadership will be in ensuring	directly with government ministers appropriate and proportionate	with the full backing of the sector arrangements to implement the	they represent.


Does the Sector Deal represent the breadth of the sector?
A Sector Deal cannot be restricted	We would also expect, where relevant, to incumbents; it must show how	local authorities, Local Enterprise
it will bring in new entrants and	Partnerships, Prosperity Boards, challengers. Not every business	development agencies (such as and relevant stakeholder needs	Scottish Enterprise), other local
to be represented in the deal, and	business membership organisations the most ambitious businesses	and universities to be involved where should not be held back by a lack of	they have an interest in furthering the engagement from the less ambitious,	success of a particular sector.
but proposals should evidence how a broad range of businesses have been involved. This is likely to mean involving more businesses than
are necessarily members of a relevant trade body.









208






Does the proposal include a rigorous analysis of the comparative strengths and weaknesses of the sector?


Any proposals from a sector should clearly set out a sector’s comparative strengths and weaknesses and its importance to the UK economy, drawing
on a broad and rigorous evidence base. Sectors should make reference to any overarching analysis that help make the case for a sector-specific initiative, for example:
` quantitative studies of the sector including its contribution to UK GDP, productivity per head, earnings per worker, jobs, exports, or level of investment;
 ` qualitative evidence of the strengths and
weaknesses of the sector including its reputation domestically and globally;
` key international competitor markets and how the UK differentiates itself; and
` the position and importance of the sector alongside other industries in its supply chain
‘A Sector Deal cannot
be restricted to incumbents: it must show how it will bring in new entrants and challengers.’


















209


Will the specific proposals have an impact on productivity, earning power or the availability of good work?
Deal proposals should have a	and informed by the areas demonstrable and analytically	themselves and consistent with rigorous impact on the productivity	any local economic development and earning power of the sector.	strategies (engagement with
` We expect credible analysis of	local government, local economic the impact of any proposals to	development bodies and local accompany each specific proposal	membership organisations may showing expected increase in	help to provide the analysis to GVA, employment or increases in	demonstrate the impact on skilled workers, exports or specific	particular places).
investments (including foreign	` We would expect that any
direct investment) resulting from	proposals clearly demonstrate how the deal. Tangible commitments are	a potential deal might positively likely to be the most convincing.	impact on small- and medium-sized
` Where proposals have a	enterprises.
strong link to local economies	` We would expect proposals to
in particular parts of the UK,	demonstrate where they will lead to we would expect any analysis	specific investments from industry. about their impact to be backed

Can the specific proposals be delivered?
Sector Deal proposals need to be	On the government’s side we realistic and achievable. We are	are committed to having an looking for evidence that industry	honest conversation with sectors commitments can be delivered and	about what we can deliver. While that clear governance arrangements	avoiding prescription, there are will be set up. Any arrangements	some guiding principles:
should be proportionate to the scale	` Parliamentary time is at a
of ambition of the deal itself and	premium so proposals that require designed to ensure commitments	legislation are likely to prove more will endure. To be credible, deal	challenging than those that do not; proposals should include specific
delivery plans covering each
component of the proposal.

210

` we will consider reprioritising existing sources of government funding if there is a solid evidence base but there is no new government funding available for Sector Deals; and
 ` proposals that advocate making changes to government policy where substantial reform is underway will need to be particularly compelling
in their impact.



Is there a clear offer from the sector?


We will expect Sector Deals to include detailed proposals on how they can contribute to the success of the sector, the objectives of the Industrial Strategy (boosting earning power, productivity and investment), the Grand Challenges we set out in this strategy and other national objectives.
These are deals – just as each sector will have views about what they can offer and what
 would be most valuable from policymakers, the government will, naturally, have a collective view on what we can offer and expect in return. There will be other government expectations of the commitments industry should be making in a deal which might include evidence on how the sector will help deliver against other stated national objectives.
 













‘We will expect Sector Deals to include detailed proposals
on how they can contribute to the success of the sector, the objectives of the Industrial Strategy, the Grand Challenges and other national objectives.’














211
































New and innovative businesses such as CityMapper drive earning power across the economy and across the sectors in which they take root.
CityMapper is trialling providing bus services to areas their data identified as being underserved by existing transport infrastructure.

The success of our Industrial Strategy will also depend on our ability to keep up with the pace with new sectors and emerging businesses.

New and innovative businesses drive earning power across the economy and across the sectors in which they take root – ensuring strong government engagement and support for these sectors will be critical to the endurance of this strategy. To do this, we will:
` establish a new Future Sectors team that will lead work to grow the sectors that are developing and using the technologies and business models
of the future, such as robotics and
 artificial intelligence. This team will lead four reviews per year into the highest potential fast-growing sectors yet to establish an identity.
Previous reviews by the Challenger Business Programme have brought together innovators in education, law and insurance to understand their challenges and work with the government to resolve them;
` launch ministerially-led reviews, starting with GovTech / regtech

IInnddusustrtriiaall SStrtraatteegygy WWhhiittee PPaappeerr


212

(creating new ways for citizens to engage
with public services, as identified in the Digital Strategy, and including the use of Blockchain and AI technologies) and quantum technologies. There will
be an evidence-based long-term pipeline, subject to consultation with the
Prime Minister’s Council on Science and Technology;
` undertake Sector Deals with emerging and disruptive industries where there is a compelling
case to do so, beginning with artificial intelligence. The collaboration with government will drive growth in new sectors such as robotics and autonomous systems (including drones) and educational technologies (edtech) – where we are investing £30m to test the use of innovative edtech and artificial intelligence in online digital skills courses. The government will use its convening power to bring together entrepreneurs and experts to explore Sector Deals with other future sectors following the outcome of the future sectors reviews (above);
` launch the Industrial Strategy Challenges using
 emerging technologies to promote future sectors. This includes our £93m commitment to fund challenges for the use
of robotics in hazardous environments, £20m for AI to create next generation services, and £20m to invest in the industrialisation of quantum technologies;
` work with businesses to inform development of an agile approach to
regulation that promotes and supports innovation, growth of new sectors and the requirements of
innovative market entrants
‘New and innovative businesses drive earning power across the economy... We will establish a new Future Sectors
team that will lead work across sectors that are developing and using the technologies and business models of the future.’
to develop innovative approaches aimed at getting new products and services to market; and
` work with the British Business Bank to ensure businesses in future sectors are given every chance to access finance, grow and thrive.




213

White Paper



Places














































214

The availability of high quality infrastructure is essential for our lives, work and
future growth and prosperity.











215




Places

To have prosperous communities throughout the UK.

Key policies include:
Yet many places are not realising their full potential. The UK has greater disparities in regional productivity
than other European countries209. This affects people in their pay, their work opportunities and their life chances.
Every region in the UK has a role to play in boosting the national economy. We will build on the strong foundations of our city, growth and devolution deals and continue to work in partnership with local leaders to drive productivity. We will introduce Local Industrial Strategies and further strengthen local leadership through Local Enterprise Partnerships and Mayoral Combined Authorities.
We will also introduce new policies to improve skills in all parts of the country, create more connected infrastructure, back innovation strengths, ensure land is available for housing growth, and strengthen our cultural assets.
We are working with our partners in the devolved administrations to deliver ambitious plans for communities across Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
 We will also continue to build the Northern Powerhouse and Midlands Engine to help create prosperous communities throughout the UK.




` Agree Local Industrial Strategies that build on local strengths
and deliver on economic opportunities
` Create a new Transforming Cities fund that will provide £1.7bn for intra-city transport. This will fund projects that drive productivity by improving connections within city regions
` Provide £42m to pilot a Teacher Development Premium.
This will test the impact of a
£1000 budget for high-quality professional development for teachers working in areas that have fallen behind






216






The Industrial Strategy provides a national policy framework against which major public and private investments can be made with confidence. It is grounded in sound fiscal policy alongside our future approach to ideas, people, infrastructure and the business environment.
Yet economic growth does not exist in the abstract.
It happens in particular places. Cities, towns and rural areas have distinctive comparative advantages. Our national framework will only be effective if it reflects and makes the most of these economic
opportunities and challenges.
Strong local economies around the world tend to have some key attributes. They have a good supply of skilled labour; they are well connected and have land available for homes, offices and factories; and they have rich innovation ecosystems, often built around a university.
They have an attractive cultural environment210.
 We recognise that different policies will be needed for different places. In some areas the constraining issue may be housing or land supply; in other parts of the country it may be poor transport connections or skills shortages.
Policies should therefore match local needs.
Such an approach is essential because the United Kingdom has greater disparities
in regional productivity than in other European countries211. However we are confident that all our cities, towns and rural areas in
the UK can increase their prosperity if they have the right policies and approach.



‘Our cities, towns and rural areas have competitive advantages that will be essential to shaping our economic future.’






217




Variation in performance across regions

Regional productivity
Source: ONS (2017) “Subregional Productivity: Labour Productivity.”
Ordnance Survey Data © Crown Copyright 2017*NUTS3 statistical region classification


218

Large regional cities in many other European countries tend to be motors of growth of the regional and national economy.
Economists identify this as a consequence of agglomeration – bringing together labour, suppliers and consumers into bigger markets – and a major driver of productivity. Yet most English cities outside London have not enjoyed the higher productivity
seen in similar communities across Europe. This presents an opportunity to make better use of local assets.
Places across the country have strong and distinctive commercial and industrial legacies. These economic successes were forged not by order of central government but by the ambition and ingenuity of local business and civic leaders. As we enter a new period of technological revolution,
our approach must be guided by the same spirit.
Yet during much of the last century the UK came to be one of the most centralised states in Europe212. Local businesses and civic leaders lacked the means to set their
 own economic destinies and national government too often took a one size fits all approach. In recent years the tide has started to turn.
Since 2010, City, Growth and Devolution Deals have shifted power and funding to local areas to enable them to take strategic decisions about local priorities. Collectively these bespoke deals have enabled places to develop long-term plans; strengthen local leadership through directly elected city-region mayors and Local Enterprise Partnerships; and have more powers to create the right conditions for prosperity.
The Industrial Strategy builds on these foundations and goes further to strengthen the performance of our cities, towns and rural
‘Since 2010, the City, Growth and Devolution Deals have shifted power and funding to local areas to
enable them to take strategic decisions about local priorities.’








219
































Leeds city centre

The people best placed to drive forward local economies are those who live, work and do business in them.

We need to harness this local insights to develop clear, long-term strategies for future growth – this approach is vital to successful local economies.
We will work in partnership with places to develop Local Industrial Strategies, which will be developed locally and agreed with the government. These strategies will help identify  priorities to improve skills, increase innovation and enhance infrastructure and business growth. This will guide the use of local funding streams and any
 spending from national schemes.
Local Industrial Strategies will be long-term, based on clear evidence, and aligned to the national Industrial Strategy. They will identify local strengths and challenges, future opportunities and the action needed to boost productivity, earning power and competitiveness. This might include addressing skills issues, improving infrastructure, harnessing
the potential of world-class science and innovation, supporting new high-value

Industrial Strategy White Paper


220







businesses, or identifying leading sectors to inform the development of deals.
These strategies will establish new ways of working between national and local leaders in both the public and private sectors. Universities, colleges and other local institutions will be key, as will an approach that is responsive to both local and global market conditions to provide greater long-term certainty.
We will agree the first Local Industrial Strategies by March 2019.

Local leadership

Successful strategies require strong public and private leadership. We will continue to work with the new city region mayors, combined authorities, local authorities and Local Enterprise Partnerships to drive growth in England.
We will continue to support locally-driven partnerships, proposals and reforms, with the aim of ensuring that economic powers
are exercised at the most appropriate level and that decision-making is effective and clear.
 
We will prioritise areas with the potential to drive wider regional growth, focusing on clusters of expertise and
centres of economic activity.
Places in England with a Mayoral Combined Authority will have a single strategy led by the mayor and supported by Local Enterprise Partnerships. For parts of the country without a mayor, the development of the strategy will be led by the Local Enterprise Partnership. We will also discuss the suitability of this approach with the devolved administrations.




We recognise that there are different arrangements for local government and business leadership at
a regional level in each of the devolved nations.
‘Local Industrial Strategies will be long-term, based on clear evidence, and aligned to the national Industrial Strategy.’
We now have directly elected mayors in place for a number of our English city regions, covering a third
of the English population.




221

Industrial Strategy White Paper


The government will make available to Mayoral Combined Authorities a
£12m fund for 2018/19 and 2019/20 to boost the new mayors’ capacity and resources.
We have announced a deepening of the devolution deal with the West Midlands Combined Authority, which includes £6m for a housing delivery taskforce, £5m for a construction skills training scheme and a £250m
allocation from the Transforming Cities Fund to be spent on local intra-city transport priorities. In addition, Greater Manchester and the government will work in partnership to develop a Local
 Industrial Strategy. The government will provide a £243m allocation from the fund and will continue to work with Transport for Greater Manchester to explore future options.
We have agreed a ‘minded to’ devolution deal with the North of Tyne authorities, which will be subject to the consent of local partners. This will see
£600m of investment in the region over a 30-year period and create a new mayor to be elected in 2019 with control over economic levers including planning and skills.




Case Study: Local leadership of industrial regeneration in the Tees Valley
The government is working with	substances left over from the SSI the Tees Valley mayor to support	steel production processes and
the regeneration of an extensive	making the site attractive to private industrial area at Redcar by the South	sector investment. A further £5m Tees Development Corporation. This	was announced at the same time
is the first Mayoral Development	for the South Tees Development Corporation outside London	Corporation to take forward its plan.
and is promoting local economic	The South Tees Development development and inward investment	Corporation estimates the project on the south bank of the River Tees.	could create 20,000 new jobs in The government announced £118m	skilled sectors and contribute an at the Autumn Budget 2017 to	additional £1bn per annum to the ensure the ongoing safe and secure	local economy. This sustained
management of the former SSI	economic growth will benefit the
steelworks, an integral part of the	entire Tees Valley and demonstrates wider 4,500 acre development site.	the importance of the powers
This includes removing dangerous	devolved to its mayor.




222

We remain firmly committed to Local Enterprise Partnerships. From next year, the Prime Minister will chair a biannual ‘Council of Local Enterprise Partnership Chairs’. This will provide
an opportunity for Local Enterprise Partnership leaders to inform national policy decisions.
While Local Enterprise Partnerships across the country have played an important role in supporting local growth, feedback suggests that their performance has varied213. We are reviewing the roles and responsibilities of Local Enterprise Partnerships
and will bring forward reforms to leadership, governance, accountability, financial reporting and geographical boundaries. We will work with Local Enterprise Partnerships
to set out a more clearly defined set of activities and objectives in early 2018.
 These will be driven by influential local leaders, acting as figureheads for their area’s economic success, and a clear strategy for local and national partnership.
We will agree and implement appropriate structures for holding Local Enterprise Partnerships to account.
We will work with Local Enterprise Partnerships to review overlapping geographies and ensure
people are clear as to who is responsible for driving growth in their area.
We recognise that in order to deliver their role
effectively, Local Enterprise Partnerships need
‘We have announced a deepening of
the devolution deal with the West
Midlands Combined Authority, which includes £6m for
a housing delivery taskforce, £5m for a construction skills training scheme and
£250m from the Transforming Cities Fund.’

















223

Industrial Strategy White Paper
Ceramics production in Stoke-on-Trent































Case Study: The ceramics cluster in Stoke-on-Trent
Businesses in Stoke-on-Trent have	There is significant potential for a fresh vision for the ceramics	growth: ceramics use ranges industry that has started to	from electrical insulation for
reverse a long-term trend of	microchips and circuit boards to hip factory closures and job losses.	replacements and heart valves.
Traditional ceramics, such as table	This partnership has developed an and giftware, have enjoyed significant	ambitious proposal for an Advanced growth since 2009214. Partners	Ceramics Campus that combines from industry, education and local	technical innovation, creativity and government are now targeting a	commercialisation with the skills greater share of the global market	needed for the next generation of for innovative ceramics in industries	engineers in the Midlands Engine ranging from digital to healthcare.	and beyond. This demonstrates
the potential to reimagine and reinvent local industries.


224






The right economic geography

We have already encouraged collaboration to address shared challenges over regional corridors in the Northern Powerhouse and Midlands Engine.

Such regional approaches can help to deepen pools of skilled labour, drive competition, and increase market access. There are also policy benefits to working at scale, including logistics and the promotion
of the UK on the world stage.
We are expanding this approach across the country. In the Cambridge–Milton Keynes–Oxford corridor we have agreed an ambitious programme of infrastructure, housing, business investment and development. We
are also working with the Thames Estuary 2050 Growth Commission to develop a future vision and will explore options for ambitious housing deals with local authorities in the Thames Estuary region.
Others are realising the benefits. Four Local Enterprise Partnerships
– Swindon and Wiltshire, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, Heart of the South West and Dorset – have come together through the South
 West Rural Productivity Commission to develop proposals for rural growth. This collaboration also exists across sectors. The Heart
of the South West Local Enterprise Partnership is working with Cumbria to develop proposals for the nuclear industry.
‘Regional approaches can help to deepen pools of skilled labour, drive competition, and increase market access.’
Some towns face particular challenges. We will consider agreeing approaches with towns on how the government, local councils, Local Enterprise
Partnerships and businesses can work together to deliver growth in that area.




225

Industrial Strategy White Paper


Towns should be able to demonstrate that they can work collaboratively with local business and civic leaders to develop innovative solutions
and attract private investment.
 We are working with a range of local partners to explore new approaches, including on a pilot Town Deal with Grimsby.









Local Industrial Strategies will set out how local leaders and businesses will work together to deliver growth across the country (image: Grimsby)
Case Study: Driving growth in towns across the country
There are significant productivity	private sector partners to revitalise differences within our regions as well	the town centre, increase skill levels as between them. High growth city	and create new jobs and housing. centres and clusters are often found	Harlow
in close proximity to areas of lower
productivity. To support local leaders	Designated a New Town in 1947, in addressing the challenges for their	Harlow is undergoing a period of
area, an in-depth understanding of the	renewal. It is home to a new Enterprise
barriers to growth is required, which	Zone; located at the heart of the
can only come from local partnership.	London-Stansted-Cambridge corridor,
benefits from excellent transport
Grimsby	links to these major centres; and has
Grimsby is looking to a new economic	been selected by the government future as it adapts to industrial change.	as the location for Public Health There are strong prospects in the	England’s new science hub. The energy industry – the Port of Grimsby	government has also worked with is increasingly seen as a destination	Harlow College to open a new
of choice for offshore wind and	Advanced Manufacturing Centre and operations maintenance – and in port-	a base at Stansted Airport to train related logistics and manufacturing,	local workers in the skills required. chemicals/petrochemicals and food	Community leaders are working processing. The Greater Grimsby	with the government to improve the Partnership Board is developing a	business prospects of the town and new approach to regeneration that	the earning power of residents.
will be taken forward by public and

226

The most knowledge- intensive jobs, industries and research are increasingly concentrated in particular economic clusters215. This ‘clustering effect’ gives rise to additional benefits to other associated sectors through higher employment and inward investment, such as in Sheffield’s Advanced Manufacturing Innovation District. We will identify
and work with a number of emerging clusters to deepen their foundations, identify and remove barriers to growth and strengthen supply chains.
 We will work with local partners to develop a portfolio of High Potential Opportunities around strategic supply chain gaps, places and clusters that are attractive to investors and have economic potential, but which are not widely understood by businesses as they do not have sufficient market information. We
will provide targeted promotion and support for investors to increase investment into the UK.



Case Study: Advanced manufacturing in Sheffield City Region


The Sheffield City Region is home to an advanced manufacturing cluster with the University of Sheffield’s Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) as its core. The AMRC is located on the Sheffield-Rotherham border, benefiting from government backing
as part of the Sheffield City Region Enterprise Zone and as a centre for the High Value
 Manufacturing Catapult. The park is undergoing rapid expansion, including high-profile investments such as McLaren’s £50m manufacturing facility and a £110m Rolls-Royce Advanced Blade Casting
‘We will identify and work with a number of emerging clusters to deepen their foundations, identify and remove barriers to growth and strengthen supply chains.’






227

































East Devon
We have committed to guarantee funding for any project signed while we are in the EU, even if it continues after we have left, so long as the project provides good value for money and aligns with domestic priorities.
 The government remains committed to further business rates retention in England and is working collaboratively with local government on further reforms: 100 per cent business rate retention has been piloted in five parts of the country since April 2017, including Liverpool City Region,
Greater Manchester, the West Midlands, the West of England and Cornwall.
Additional pilots will begin in April 2018.

Industrial Strategy White Paper









228






Foundations of productivity

The success of our Industrial Strategy relies on credible Local Industrial Strategies and strengthened local leadership, supported by effective, locally-targeted national policies.
People

Education and skills are among the biggest determinants of local
productivity216. Since 2010 we have made important strides in improving our education and skills system. Employers are more involved in shaping our skills system, including in our ambition
for three million apprentices to have started in the five years to 2020217. This is set out in more detail in the People chapter of this paper.
Our challenge now is to ensure that these improvements are felt
across the country, with opportunities available for everyone wherever they live. There remain significant regional disparities in education and skills,
such as the disparities in educational achievements among young people218.
Education and skills training are devolved to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
 We recognise that there are similar initiatives in areas of England and the devolved administrations, including the development of Regional Skills Assessments in Scotland and the implementation of Regional Skills Partnerships in Wales. Given the cross- border nature of many employers, we will seek to use our continuing dialogue with the devolved nations to consider how we tackle
skills issues impacting these businesses and communities
‘Since 2010 we have made important strides in improving our education
and skills system. Employers are more involved in shaping our skills system, including in our ambition for three million apprentices.’
system will focus on school improvement across the country. In London, 90
per cent of secondary schools are good or outstanding, compared to just 67 per cent of schools in the north east219.






229


Inadequate
Requires improvement
Outstanding & good
Secondary School Ofsted rating, March 2017

London East of England South West South East England
West Midlands East Midlands Yorks. & Humber
North West North East
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Secondary school performance across England
Source: Ofsted inspection data 2017


Building on existing support, we will invest £42m to pilot a Teacher
Development Premium. This will test the impact of a £1,000 budget for high quality professional development for teachers in areas of the country that face the greatest challenge
in driving pupil outcomes.
We will also deliver reforms to technical education to help places drive productivity across the country. These reforms, set out in the People section of this paper, will have positive and pronounced effect on places outside the south east, where uptake is considerably higher. But we will also need to do
more to make sure local skills systems respond effectively to local needs.
 We will work with Mayoral Combined Authorities and Local Enterprise Partnerships across all areas of England to establish Skills Advisory Panels. These will enable mayors and Local Enterprise Partnerships to support employers, education providers and local government in identifying current and future local skills needs shaping the provision
and funding of post-age 16 education and training and careers guidance.





230

Infrastructure

High quality infrastructure between and within cities is vital to local productivity. Commitments to projects like High Speed 2 will better connect our great cities. As set out in the infrastructure chapter, we will continue to enhance connections across regional corridors of economic growth

This includes £300m funding to ensure High Speed 2 infrastructure can accommodate Northern Powerhouse and Midlands rail services. Transport for the North and Midlands Connect are working up the case for these services.
This will enable faster links between cities in the north, including Liverpool and Manchester, Sheffield, Leeds and York, and from these cities to the East Midlands and London. To support the delivery of the
Midlands Connect Strategy, the government will provide
£2m to develop options to address key constraints on the Coventry–Leamington rail corridor, and £4m for congestion measures.
 We will invest more in improving transport connections within city regions. We will make
£1.7bn available through the Transforming Cities Fund to support projects that drive productivity by improving connections within city regions. This will target projects that drive productivity by improving connections within city regions. Half will be allocated on a per capita basis to the six combined authorities with elected metro mayors, and half will
‘We will make
£1.7bn available through the Transforming Cities Fund to support projects that
drive productivity by improving connections within city regions.’














231


Case Study: Cambridge-Milton Keynes-Oxford corridor
The corridor containing Cambridge,	`	Local Enterprise Partnerships Milton Keynes and Oxford has the		across the corridor, and potential to be the UK’s Silicon		the Cambridgeshire and Valley. Two of its universities		Peterborough Combined
are consistently ranked in the	Authority, are working to back world’s top four220, it competes	the area’s world-class science for international high-tech and	and innovation assets, as well science investment, and it contains	as identifying and growing nationally significant industry	new sectors and business.
concentrations such as information	`	The government is working on technology, life sciences, automotive		a series of sector deals in life engineering and professional		sciences, artificial intelligence services. Estimates by the National		and construction with potential Infrastructure Commission (NIC)		benefits for the corridor. suggest that, with the right actions,
annual output of the corridor could	`	The government will work with
increase by £163bn per annum by	local partners to build on the 2050 – approximately doubling the	strong international profile of growth expected to happen without	the corridor to boost inward government intervention221.	investment and exports.
In the Autumn Budget, the	`	Building on the corridor’s government announced a vision for		expertise in driverless vehicle the corridor to stimulate economic		technologies, the government growth. This includes an ambition		recently announced a £6.9m
for one million homes by 2050,	investment in a driverless vehicle
starting with a housing deal with	testing infrastructure scheme Oxfordshire comprising a government	involving the Culham Science Park investment of up to £215m to fund	in Oxfordshire and the Millbrook local infrastructure in return for up to	proving ground in Bedfordshire.
100,000 homes in the area by 2031.	`	Cambridge has been announced And the government is investing		as one of eleven Tech Nation
in the rail and road infrastructure	regional hubs that will be
needed to boost productivity across	established outside London. the corridor and support the homes
the area needs. In order to further stimulate economic growth:



232

As detailed in the Infrastructure chapter, we will adopt a more
strategic approach to new infrastructure investment in order to drive growth across the country. Our ‘Rebalancing Toolkit’ will mean that no decisions on significant investments are taken without due
consideration being given to the impact of investments on local growth.
We will ensure that investments in infrastructure are consistent with our goals for cutting carbon emissions while growing the economy, as set out in the Clean Growth Strategy. Our new Local Energy Programme will support areas to
develop their capability and capacity to realise energy opportunities – such as
the Teesside Collective, a grouping of multi-national industrial companies, which are developing proposals for a cluster using carbon capture, usage and storage.
Housing is vital to the economic success of our cities and regions. The government has made available £15.3bn of new financial support for housing over the next five years, bringing total support for housing to at least £44bn
 over this period. This includes introducing planning reforms that will ensure more land is available for housing, and that better use is made of underused land
in our cities and towns.
Being more responsive to local needs is an important part of the government’s housing strategy. We will deliver bespoke housing deals with places where housing demand is high.
The government wants to support places with ambitious and innovative plans to build additional homes where they are needed, and which will support wider economic
‘Housing is vital to the economic success of our cities and regions.
The government has made available
£15.3bn of new financial support for housing over the next five years.’
We have announced a housing deal with Oxfordshire to deliver
100,000 homes by 2031 and a joint statutory spatial plan, supported by government investment of up to £215m for infrastructure, affordable housing and local capacity.




233



The deal also seeks to secure and create jobs across Oxfordshire. This ambitious rate of housing delivery is consistent with the National Infrastructure Commission’s
target of one million new homes in the Cambridge-Milton Keynes-
 Oxford corridor by 2050. We are in discussions with a number of other places around the country about housing deals, including
Greater Manchester, Leeds, the West Midlands and the west of England.



Ideas



As demonstrated by Science and Innovation Audits, there are world- class science and innovation assets across the UK222. These range from agricultural technology in the east of England and advanced manufacturing in the Sheffield City Region to offshore renewable energy in north east England and neuroscience in Cardiff.
There are research and institutional strengths across the country on which we can build in order to foster strong innovation ecosystems.
We will work with areas to identify measures that can help to grow innovation ecosystems, using the evidence from the Science and Innovation Audits. To support this, we will create a new £115m per annum Strength in Places Fund.
This will build on existing areas of excellence across the country, funding collaborative programmes proposed by universities, local employers, Local Enterprise Partnerships and their counterparts in the devolved nations.
Investment in culture, sport and heritage can contribute to positive economic and social outcomes223. An
 exemplar is the success of Hull City of Culture this year. Next year we will see local economies across the Northern Powerhouse benefit from the Great Exhibition of the North – a two-month showcase of the great innovation, design, and arts hosted in Newcastle and Gateshead. Building on the success of the Northern Cultural Regeneration Fund and the recommendations
of the Bazalgette Review, we are investing £2m in place-based cultural development to continue to support the role culture can play in regeneration.
Cultural bodies can enhance the attractiveness of places. Building on the legacy of the 2012 Olympics,
part of the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park is being developed to locate the British Council. The government has consulted on how Channel 4 could increase its regional impact, including moving some or all of its
staff outside London. The government is in discussions with Channel 4, and will set out next steps shortly.
We will also use the relocation of arms’ length bodies and departmental functions to support growth across




234

the UK. We will move jobs, including senior roles, out of London and the surrounding area to new hubs and specialist clusters across the UK between now and 2025. For example, we are building on the digital health cluster in
 Leeds by moving NHS Digital, alongside HM Revenue and Customs, into a new hub of 6,000 civil servants. We will be looking to move further health functions to the city to build on this success.













Case Study: Research laboratories and agri-tech innovation in Norwich


Norwich Research Park is a world-renowned centre of agri-tech research and innovation with an annual research expenditure of over £230m. It brings together 3,000 scientists, researchers and clinicians in a range of leading research institutions.
These include the John Innes Centre, Quadram Institute, Earlham Institute, Sainsbury Laboratory, University of East Anglia and Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital.
There are also over 70 research-based business
 companies on the site in the agricultural heartland of Norfolk. Research
‘We will create a new £115m per annum Strength in Places Fund. This will build on existing areas of excellence across the country.’
translational research are also continuing to grow. The Quadram Institute is due to open fully in 2018 and will offer outstanding genetic research on the role microbiomes play in human health and disease. This is already attracting the attention of major food businesses worldwide.





235





























Belfast, Northern Ireland

We are working with our partners in the devolved administrations to deliver ambitious plans for communities across Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

Since 2014 we have announced  six City Deals across Scotland and Wales that will involve up to £1.6bn of UK government investment. We are committed to taking forward further deals in each nation.
In Scotland, we are making good progress towards City Deals for Stirling and Clackmannanshire and the Tay Cities, and have announced that we will begin negotiations on a growth deal for the Scottish borderlands.
In each of these, we will continue to work alongside local partners and the Scottish government.
 We intend to begin formal negotiations towards a Growth Deal with north Wales and will consider proposals for
a mid-Wales deal, working alongside the Welsh government and local partners. With ambitious deals we have already agreed with the Cardiff and Swansea regions this means that all regions of Wales have the potential to benefit from deal investment.
In Northern Ireland, we will open negotiations for a Belfast City Deal as part of our commitment to a comprehensive and ambitious set of city deals across Northern Ireland.

Industrial Strategy White Paper



236

Our backing for economic growth corridors extends across the devolved nations. It includes support for further cross-border working between North Wales and Cheshire and Warrington, and an interest in how proposals for a
mid-Wales growth deal could take account of the same. This is in addition to the benefits for the Bristol- Cardiff-Newport area that will arise from the abolition of tolls across the Severn Bridge by the end of 2018.
Our support for economic clusters, culture and innovation applies throughout the UK. We want to build on the innovative approaches secured through City and Growth Deals, supported by their respective boards, and work with places within Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland – and with our partners in each devolved administration – to explore Local Industrial Strategies that align with regional, national and UK priorities.
We are committed to ensuring that the UK government and the devolved administrations work effectively together. We therefore propose to work with the devolved
 administrations to review inter-agency cooperation, to identify opportunities for improving both the coherence and impact of government interventions and to improve awareness of, and access to, opportunities throughout the UK supply chain.
The reforms set out throughout this chapter, with their unwavering focus on communities, regions and networks, are a new approach to economic growth in the UK. They will ensure
we lay the foundations for strong, sustainable growth in incomes that is better shared across the country. This is a critical moment for our cities and regions. As we make choices for our economy in the coming years, our Industrial Strategy will
‘Since 2014 we have announced six City Deals across Scotland and Wales that will involve
up to £1.6bn in UK government investment.’






237

Industrial Strategy White Paper













The Oil and Gas Technology Centre in Aberdeen is an industry-led research organisation funding projects to help realise the full potential of the North Sea as a global centre for oil and gas innovation.
Case study: Deal investment across the UK
Six City Deals have already been	its growing biopharmaceutical agreed across Scotland and Wales	sector, improvements in digital since 2014. These deals – which	infrastructure, local transport and
leverage billions of pounds of	the expansion of Aberdeen harbour. additional investment from partners	It is also building on the work
in the public and private sector –	done by both the government and demonstrate that our partnership	industry to support the oil and gas with the devolved administrations and	industry by promoting innovation our collaboration with local partners	and collaboration between industry can yield ambitious, large-scale plans	players.
driven by the priorities that places	An excellent example of this is the identify for themselves. They show	£180m investment in the Oil and Gas that the devolution settlement can be	Technology Centre that opened in a major catalyst for economic growth.	Aberdeen in February 2017. The new
The Aberdeen City Region Deal	centre is an industry-led research
agreed in November 2016 is	organisation, backed by both the UK worth more than £250m to the	and Scottish governments which will regional economy in north east	fund projects to help unlock the full Scotland. That deal is supporting	potential of the UK North Sea and regional innovation in north east	which aims to become the global Scotland’s food and drink sector,	centre for oil and gas innovation.


238















Tata Steel, Port Talbot
Case Study: Innovation in steel across the UK


The UK has a good track record in steel innovation based on both strong industrial heritage and outstanding research and development. Our research strengths are
spread as widely as Cardiff, Huddersfield, Cambridge and Warwick, while a Steel Science Centre forms part of the £1.3bn Swansea
Bay City Region Deal. The government has been working closely with the steel industry to map the current capability of the
 sector and discuss a series of proposals developed since the publication of Building our Industrial Strategy. We will aim to identify opportunities
for steel markets and build on these innovation assets across the UK. We will continue to engage with industry, as well
‘Our research strengths are spread as widely as Cardiff, Huddersfield, Cambridge and Warwick, while a
Steel Science Centre forms part of the
£1.3bn Swansea Bay City Region Deal.’













239

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































240
Conclusion




Britain and the world


We face a time of unprecedented economic change, powered by new technology. Now is the time for the United Kingdom to ensure we are well prepared to prosper.

Our Industrial Strategy sets out our vision for the future economy and our strategy to boost the productivity, earning power and quality of life of the British people. Our aim is that by 2030 we will have transformed productivity and earning power across the UK to become the world’s most innovative economy and the best place to start and grow a business, with upgraded infrastructure and prosperous communities across the country.
Our strategy commits the government to working with business, universities, researchers and civic society over
the years ahead to take advantage of the opportunities we have and address those aspects we need to improve. We build on Britain’s many
strengths. We will focus on reinforcing the foundations of productivity: ideas, people, infrastructure, our business environment and places.
We know that reinforcing the foundations of productivity is necessary but not sufficient; we need to do more to embrace the opportunities of the future. As an open and agile economy, built on innovation and enterprise, change can play to our strengths.
 Our Grand Challenges will place us in the vanguard of changes
transforming the world – which will shape our lives – and which must work for us all. Our Sector Deals will drive up productivity through partnerships between the government and industry to boost investment and skills. Built on the five foundations, our strategy will ensure that Britain is one of the most attractive places in the world to live, work and invest.
Our Industrial Strategy is taking action now. We have committed to the biggest ever increase in public and private investment in research and development. Public infrastructure funding will have doubled in a decade by 2022/23 and through Local Industrial Strategies we will work with
local leaders to build the most dynamic economies. We are reforming our technical education system to make it as prestigious as our higher education system, and we are supporting businesses across the country to boost their exports and productivity.








241




Partnership is at the heart of our approach. We are in discussions with businesses, devolved administrations, city regions and Local Enterprise Partnerships about how we support communities to thrive. The Grand Challenges and Sector Deals will only succeed with the active engagement of the best and brightest across the UK. We will continue to identify new challenges and technologies as our public spending on research and development grows substantially.
Yet the world is changing fast. A successful Industrial Strategy needs to combine agility with patience. We need a clear and consistent direction,
policies and institutions that are trusted by business, investors, local leaders, universities and researchers, which allow them to invest in a shared vision of the future. But we also need to be flexible to change. This is why it is so important that this Industrial Strategy will be continuously updated, informed by evidence about how our economy
is changing and what it means for productivity, and the effectiveness of current policies. Our Industrial Strategy Council will ensure we have the right approach to measuring success.
What will not change is our commitment to an open, liberal, modern economy, built on the core principles of competition, free trade and high regulatory standards.
 Our strategy is also one that is avowedly international. We will stay true to our tradition of being one of the world’s most open economies – welcoming investment from overseas, participating in global supply chains, and buying and selling goods and services from all over the world – and to our obligations as part of the international community.
Clean energy, for example, is not just an economic opportunity; it is also a moral duty in addressing climate change.
The process of leaving the European Union inevitably entails some uncertainty as negotiations take place to determine our future economic relationship. We want to have a continuing deep partnership with the EU that will not disrupt supply chains or impose barriers to our largest trading partner. We will not just respect the rights of European citizens living here; we will develop an approach through which European citizens can continue to come here to work and contribute
to our economy. The UK and all of Europe benefit from our partnerships in research. We want that collaboration to continue on major science, research and technology initiatives. We are leaving the EU, but we are not
leaving Europe.









242



































We can also do more to embrace the opportunities, and so much emerging innovation, in the wider world. We must do more to export and promote what we do to the world’s fastest-growing economies, where there is a strong appetite not only for our goods but
our world-class services, from tourism and healthcare to professional and financial services, and for cultural collaboration too. We will be active participants in the international bodies setting standards and regulations especially in the emerging industries of the future such as artificial intelligence and data protection.
 
The United Kingdom is, and will be, a leading global economy. The ambition of our Industrial Strategy is to build
a Britain fit for the future, a country confident and outward-looking, as we work together to increase productivity and earning power for everyone.








243


References



	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Building our Industrial Strategy’ Green Paper https://www.gov.uk/government/consul- tations/building-our-industrial-strategy
	•	Eurostat (2017), ‘Employment and activity by sex and age’,(For workers aged 15-64 years old), http://appsso.eurostat.ec.eu- ropa.eu/nui/submitViewTableAction.do).
	•	Eurostat Science and Technology database (2017), ‘Research and Development’, http:// ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/science-tech- nology-innovation/data/database
	•	The World Bank (2017), ‘Ease of doing business index’; http://data.worldbank. org/indicator/IC.BUS.EASE.XQ
	•	UNCTAD (2017), ‘International Trade in Goods and Services’ http://unctadstat.unctad.org/ wds/ReportFolders/reportFolders.aspx
	•	Global Innovation Index (2017), ‘Global In- novation Index 2017 Report’, https://www. globalinnovationindex.org/analysis-indicator
	•	The Core Cities is a group of cities in- cluding: Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham and Sheffield.
	•	ONS (2017), ‘International comparisons of productivity’, (Based on output per hour worked, current prices), https://www.ons.gov. uk/economy/economicoutputandproductivity/ productivitymeasures/datasets/internation- alcomparisonsofproductivityfirstestimates
	•	ONS, (2017), ’Labour Productivity: April to June 2017’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentand- labourmarket/peopleinwork/labourproductivity/ bulletins/labourproductivity/apriltojune2017
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Employment rate (aged 16 to 64, seasonally adjusted)’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/ employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/timeseries/lf24
	•	Haldane, A (2017), ‘Productivity puzzles’ Speech given at the London School of Economics,
20 March. http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ publications/Pages/speeches/2017/968.aspx
	•	ONS (2017), ‘UK Balance of Payments, The Pink Book: 2017’,Table 9.4 https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/nationalaccounts/ balanceofpayments/bulletins/unitedking- dombalanceofpaymentsthepinkbook/2017
	•	 DIT (2017), ‘Preparing for our future UK trade policy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/preparing-for-our-future-uk-trade-policy
	•	IMF (2017),‘World Economic Outlook, October 2017’, https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ ft/weo/2017/02/weodata/index.aspx)
	•	WEF (2017), ‘The Fourth Industrial Rev- olution: what it means, how to respond’ https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/01/ the-fourth-industrial-revolution-what-
it-means-and-how-to-respond/
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘The Clean Growth Strategy (2017)’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/clean-growth-strategy
	•	Innovations for Germany (2014), ‘The new High- Tech Strategy’, https://www.hightech-strategie. de/de/The-new-High-Tech-Strategy-390.php
	•	UK Biobank (2017), ‘About UK Biobank’ http:// www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/about-biobank-uk/
	•	Mazzucato, M (2017), ‘Mission Oriented Inno- vation Policy: Challenges and Opportunities’, https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/public-purpose/ publications/2017/oct/mission-oriented-inno- vation-policy-challenges-and-opportunities
	•	Mckinsey (2017), ‘Shaping the future of work in Europe’s 9 digital front-runner countries’ https://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/ europe/shaping-the-future-of-work-in-eu- ropes-nine-digital-front-runner-countries
	•	PwC (2017), ‘Sizing the prize, PwC’s Glob- al Artificial Intelligence Study: Exploiting the AI Revolution’ https://www.pwc.com/ gx/en/issues/data-and-analytics/publica- tions/artificial-intelligence-study.html
	•	Hall, W and Pesenti, J. (2017), ’Growing the Artificial Intelligence Industry in the UK: The independent review’ https://www.gov.uk/ government/publications/growing-the-ar- tificial-intelligence-industry-in-the-uk
	•	Ricardo Energy and Environment for the Committee on Climate Change (2017) ‘UK business opportunities of moving to a low carbon economy’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/ wp-content/uploads/2017/03/ED10039-CCC-UK- Bus-Opportunities-Draft-Final-Report-V7.pdf
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Provisional Greenhouse Gas Emis- sions Inventory Statistics 2016’ https://www.gov. uk/government/statistics/provisional-uk-green-



244



house-gas-emissions-national-statistics-2016
	•	ONS (2016), ‘Quarterly National Accounts Statis- tical bulletins’ https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/ grossdomesticproductgdp/timeseries/abmi
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘The Clean Growth Strategy (2017)’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/clean-growth-strategy
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Upgrading our energy sys- tem: smart systems and flexibility plan (2017)’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/upgrading-our-energy-sys- tem-smart-systems-and-flexibility-plan
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Energy consumption in the UK 2017’ https://www.gov.uk/government/statis- tics/energy-consumption-in-the-uk, Table 1.01
	•	OECD (2017), ‘OECD Economic Survey of the UK, 2017’ http://www.oecd.org/eco/ surveys/United-Kingdom-2017-OECD-eco- nomic-survey-overview.pdf
	•	Government Office for Science (2016), ‘Future of an ageing population’ https:// www.gov.uk/government/publications/ future-of-an-ageing-population
	•	ONS (2016), ‘What are your chances of living to 100?’, https://visual.ons.gov.uk/ what-are-your-chances-of-living-to-100/
	•	United Nations (2015), ‘World population ageing 2015’, http://www.un.org/en/de- velopment/desa/population/publications/ pdf/ageing/WPA2015_Highlights.pdf
	•	Office for Life Sciences (2017), ‘Life Sciences: industrial strategy’’ https:// www.gov.uk/government/publications/ life-sciences-industrial-strategy
	•	European Commission (2017), ‘European Innova- tion Scoreboard’, http://ec.europa.eu/growth/in- dustry/innovation/facts-figures/scoreboards_en
	•	Elsevier (2017), ‘International compara- tive performance of the UK Research Base 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_ data/file/651174/uk-research-base-in- ternational-comparison-2016.pdf
	•	QS Top Universities (2017), ‘QS World University Rankings 2018’, https:// www.topuniversities.com/
	•	Full Fact (2017), ‘How many Nobel Prizes has the UK won?’, https://fullfact.org/news/ how-many-nobel-prizes-has-uk-won/, and, OECD (2017), ‘Main Science and technology indicators (MSTI)’, (2015 data point used,
 Percentage of GERD funded by rest of the world), http://www.oecd.org/sti/msti.htm
	•	BIS (2016), ‘UK innovation survey 2015’ https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/506953/
bis-16-134-uk-innovation-survey-2015.pdf
	•	OECD (2017), ‘Main Science and Technol- ogy Indicators’, (2015 data points used), http://www.oecd.org/sti/msti.htm
	•	OECD (2017), ‘Science Technology and Industry Scoreboard’, (BERD adjust-
ed for industrial structure), http://www. oecd-ilibrary.org/science-and-technology/ oecd-science-technology-and-indus-
try-scoreboard-2017_9789264268821-en
	•	OECD (2017), ‘Main Science and technology indicators’ http://www.oecd.org/sti/msti.htm
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Business enterprise research and development, UK: 2016’ https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpub- licsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/bulletins/businessent- erpriseresearchanddevelopment/2016
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Business enterprise research and development, UK: 2016’ https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpub- licsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/bulletins/businessent- erpriseresearchanddevelopment/2016
	•	European Commission (2017), ‘Europe- an innovation scoreboard 2017’ http:// ec.europa.eu/growth/industry/innova- tion/facts-figures/scoreboards_en
	•	Elsevier (2017), ‘International compara- tive performance of the UK Research Base 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_ data/file/651174/uk-research-base-in- ternational-comparison-2016.pdf
	•	OECD (2017), ‘Main Science and Technol- ogy Indicators’, (2015 data points used), http://www.oecd.org/sti/msti.htm
	•	Economic Insights (2015), ‘What is the rela- tionship between public and private invest- ment in science, research and innovation?’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ research-and-development-relationship-be- tween-public-and-private-investment
	•	Intellectual Property Office (2016), ‘UK in- tangible investment and growth’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/publications/ uk-intangible-investment-and-growth



245



	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Science and innovation audits: second reports published’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/science-and-in- novation-audits-second-reports-published
	•	ONS (2015), ‘UK Gross domestic expenditure on research and development’, https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpublic- sectorandtaxes/researchanddevelopment- expenditure/bulletins/ukgrossdomesticex- penditureonresearchanddevelopment/2015
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Business enterprise research and development, UK: 2016’ https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpub- licsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/bulletins/businessent- erpriseresearchanddevelopment/2016
	•	Elsevier (2017), ‘International compara- tive performance of the UK Research Base 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_ data/file/651174/uk-research-base-in- ternational-comparison-2016.pdf
	•	European Commission (2017), ‘The 2016 EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard’, http:// iri.jrc.ec.europa.eu/scoreboard16.html
	•	BEIS analysis based on ONS GERD and European Commission data. ONS (2015), ‘UK Gross domes- tic expenditure on research and development’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/government- publicsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/bulletins/ukgrossdomestic- expenditureonresearchanddevelopment/2015, and, European Commission (2016), ‘The 2016
EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard’, http://iri.jrc.ec.europa.eu/scoreboard16.html
	•	BIS (2015), ‘Nurse review of research coun- cils: recommendations’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/nurse-re-
view-of-research-councils-recommendations
	•	IEA (2016), ‘World Energy Outlook 2016’, https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2016/ november/world-energy-outlook-2016.html
	•	Frankfurt School UNEP Collaborating Cen- tre (2017), ‘Global Trends in Renewable Energy Investment 2017’ http://fs-unep-cen- tre.org/sites/default/files/attachments/ 17083blnef_unep_gtr_data_file.pdf
	•	UN-Water (2016), ‘The United Nations World Wa- ter Development Report 2016’ http://unesdoc. unesco.org/images/0024/002440/244041e.pdf
	•	ONS (2014), ‘ONS National Population Pro- jections’ https://www.ons.gov.uk/people-
 populationandcommunity/populationand- migration/populationprojections/bulletins/ nationalpopulationprojections/2015-10-29
	•	ONS (2017), ‘National Accounts Low Lev- el Aggregates’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/ economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/ datasets/ukgdpolowlevelaggregates
	•	Royal Academy of Engineering (2015), ‘The Dowling Review of Business University Re- search Collaborations’, http://www.raeng. org.uk/policy/dowling-review/the-dowl- ing-review-of-business-university-research
	•	HEFCE (2016), ‘University KE framework: Good practice in technology transfer’, http://www. hefce.ac.uk/pubs/rereports/Year/2016/ketech/
	•	Royal Academy of Engineering (2015), ‘The Dowling Review of Business University Re- search Collaborations’, http://www.raeng. org.uk/policy/dowling-review/the-dowl- ing-review-of-business-university-research
64.  HEBCI (2015/16), ‘HE-BCI record 2015/16
(Part B)’, https://www.hesa.ac.uk/da-
ta-and-analysis/publications/hebci-2015-16
	•	BIS (2013), ‘Encouraging a British Invention Rev- olution: Sir Andrew Witty’s Review of Universities and Growth’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/249720/bis-13-1241-encouraging-a-british-in- vention-revolution-andrew-witty-review-R1.pdf
	•	Ernst and Young (2017), ‘Cat- apult Network Review’
	•	MRC (2017), ‘Economic impact report 2015/16’, https://www.mrc.ac.uk/publications/ browse/economic-impact-report-2015-16/
	•	Loughborough University Science and Re- search Park, http://www.lusep.co.uk/
	•	Brenner, T; Emmrich, C; Schlump, Cl (2013), ‘Regional Effects of a Cluster-oriented pol- icy measure - The Case of the InnoRegio program in Germany’, https://wpis.files. wordpress.com/2013/04/wp-30.pdf
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Science and innovation audits: second reports published’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/science-and-in- novation-audits-second-reports-published
	•	Elsevier (2017), ‘International compar-  ative performance of the UK Research Base 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/govern- ment/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/651174/uk-research-base-in- ternational-comparison-2016.pdf



246



	•	BIS (2016), ‘UK innovation survey 2015’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/506953/
bis-16-134-uk-innovation-survey-2015.pdf
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘UK’s participation in hori- zon 2020: May 2017’, https://www.gov. uk/government/statistics/uks-partici- pation-in-horizon-2020-may-2017
	•	European Commission (2017), ‘Research and In- novation performance and Horizon 2020 coun- try participation’, http://ec.europa.eu/research/ horizon2020/index_en.cfm?pg=country-profiles
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘UK’s participation in hori- zon 2020: May 2017’, https://www.gov. uk/government/statistics/uks-partici- pation-in-horizon-2020-may-2017
	•	OECD (2017) ‘OECD Employment Outlook’, https://data.oecd.org/ emp/employment-rate.htm
	•	Ofsted (2016), ‘Ofsted Annual Report of Her Maj- esty’s Chief Inspector of Education, Children’s Services and Skills 2015/16’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/574186/Ofsted_annual_report_ education_and_skills_201516_web-ready.pdf
	•	DfE (2016), ‘Participation rates in higher education: 2006 to 2016’, https://www. gov.uk/government/statistics/participa-
tion-rates-in-higher-education-2006-to-2016
	•	UNESCO (2017), ‘Student flow’, http:// uis.unesco.org/en/uis-student-flow
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Dataset A08: Labour market status of disabled people’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/ employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatusofdisabledpeoplea08
ONS (2017), ‘A09: Labour market status by ethnic group’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/em- ploymentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatusbyethnicgroupa09
	•	ONS(2017), ‘Annual Survey of Hours and Earn- ings: 2017 provisional and 2016 revised results’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabour- market/peopleinwork/earningsandworking- hours/bulletins/annualsurveyofhoursandearn- ings/2017provisionaland2016revisedresults
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Labour Market Statistics’, https:// www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/ peopleinwork/employmentandemployeetypes/ bulletins/uklabourmarket/september2017
	•	 Bank of England working paper (2015), ‘The impact of immigration on occupation- al wages: evidence from Britain’, http:// www.bankofengland.co.uk/research/Docu- ments/workingpapers/2015/swp574.pdf
	•	UCAS (2017), ‘UCAS 2016 Application Cycle: End of Cycle Report’, https://www.ucas.com/ corporate/data-and-analysis/ucas-undergrad- uate-releases/ucas-undergraduate-analysis-re- ports/ucas-undergraduate-end-cycle-reports
	•	UKCES (2015), ‘STEM: Employer Skills Sur- vey 2015: UK Results. 2016.’, https://www. gov.uk/government/publications/ukces- employer-skills-survey-2015-uk-report
	•	CBI (2015), ‘Inspiring growth: CBI/Pearson ed- ucation and skills survey 2015’, http://www.cbi. org.uk/index.cfm/_api/render/file/?method=in- line&fileID=92095A98-3A90-4FBD-9AF- 891997B103F50
	•	Social Market Foundation for EDF Energy (2017), ‘Jobs of the Future’, https://www.edfenergy. com/sites/default/files/jobs-of-the-future.pdf
	•	Home Office (2016), ‘Immigration Rules Appen- dix K: shortage occupation list’, https://www. gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigra- tion-rules-appendix-k-shortage-occupation-list
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Report of Professor Sir Adri- an Smith’s review of post-16 mathematics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/smith-review-of-post-16-maths- report-and-government-response
	•	DfE (2017) ‘Statistics: 16 to 19 attainment’, (October KS5 SFR provisional data), https:// www.gov.uk/government/collections/ statistics-attainment-at-19-years
	•	UKCES (2013), ‘The supply of and demand for high-level STEM skills’, https://www. gov.uk/government/publications/high- level-stem-skills-supply-and-demand
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Report of Professor Sir Adri- an Smith’s review of post-16 mathematics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/smith-review-of-post-16-maths- report-and-government-response
	•	OECD (2015) ‘The ABC of Gender Equality in Education Aptitude, Behaviour, Confi- dence’ http://www.oecd.org/pisa/keyfind- ings/pisa-2012-results-gender-eng.pdf
	•	CBI (2016), ‘Unlocking regional growth’, http://www.cbi.org.uk/index.cfm/_api/ render/file/?method=inline&fileID=9AF06




247



398-223D-4214-B96F1AD8A2FE4CC8
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Early years foundation stage profile results: 2016 to 2017’, https://www.gov. uk/government/statistics/early-years-foun- dation-stage-profile-results-2016-to-2017
	•	Ofsted (2017), ‘Maintained schools and acad- emies inspections and outcomes as at 31 March 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ statistics/maintained-schools-and-academies- inspections-and-outcomes-as-at-31-march-2017
	•	UCAS (2017), ‘UCAS 2016 Application Cycle: End of Cycle’ Report’, https://www.ucas.com/ corporate/data-and-analysis/ucas-undergrad- uate-releases/ucas-undergraduate-analysis-re- ports/ucas-undergraduate-end-cycle-reports.
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Labour Market Statistics time series dataset’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/em- ploymentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatistics; ONS(2017), ‘Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings: 2017 provi- sional and 2016 revised results’, https://www. ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/ peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/ bulletins/annualsurveyofhoursandearn- ings/2017provisionaland2016revisedresults. Resolution Foundation (2016), ‘Low Pay Britain 2016’, http://www.resolutionfounda- tion.org/publications/low-pay-britain-2016/
	•	CBI (2017), ‘The right combination: CBI/Pear- son education and skills survey 2016’, http:// www.cbi.org.uk/cbi-prod/assets/File/pdf/ cbi-education-and-skills-survey2016.pdf
	•	CBI (2017), ‘Helping the UK thrive: CBI/ Pearson Employment and Skills Sur- vey 2017’, http://www.cbi.org.uk/in-
sight-and-analysis/helping-the-uk-thrive/
	•	BIS (2013), ‘Impact of university de- grees on the lifecycle of earnings: some further analysis’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/publications/university-de- grees-impact-on-lifecycle-of-earnings
	•	BIS (2015), ‘UK skills and productivity in an international context’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/publications/uk-skills-and-pro- ductivity-in-an-international-context
	•	UKCES (2016) ‘UK labour market pro- jections: 2014 to 2024’, www.gov.uk/ government/publications/uk-labour- market-projections-2014-to-2024
	•	BEIS and DfE (2016), ‘Post-16 skills plan and independent report on technical edu-
 cation’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/post-16-skills-plan-and-inde- pendent-report-on-technical-education
	•	BEIS and DfE (2016), ‘Post-16 skills plan and independent report on technical edu- cation’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/post-16-skills-plan-and-inde- pendent-report-on-technical-education
	•	BEIS and DfE (2016), ‘Post-16 skills plan and independent report on technical edu- cation’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/post-16-skills-plan-and-inde- pendent-report-on-technical-education
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Report of Professor Sir Adri- an Smith’s review of post-16 mathematics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/smith-review-of-post-16-maths- report-and-government-response
	•	DfE (2016), ‘Achievement of 15-Year-Olds in England: PISA 2015 National Report’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/574925/ PISA-2015_England_Report.pdf
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Report of Professor Sir Adri- an Smith’s review of post-16 mathematics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/smith-review-of-post-16-maths- report-and-government-response
	•	DCMS (2015), ‘Sectors Economic Estimates’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/ dcms-sectors-economic-estimates-2016
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Level 2 and 3 attainment in Eng- land: Attainment by age 19 in 2016’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/603921/ Tables_6_-_15_2017SFR_V2.xlsx
	•	IEA (2016),‘Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) 2015 Internation-
al Results in Maths’, http://timss2015.org/
timss-2015/mathematics/student-achievement/
; OECD (2016), ‘Programme of Internation- al Student Assessment (PISA) 2015 Results
(Volume I): Excellence and Equity in Education’, http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/9789264266490-en
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Level 2 and 3 attainment in Eng- land: Attainment by age 19 in 2016’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/603921/ Tables_6_-_15_2017SFR_V2.xlsx
	•	Core maths qualifications are: City & Guilds Level 3 Certificates in Using and Applying Mathematics ; OCR Level 3 Certificate in



248



Quantitative Reasoning; OCR Level 3 Certifi- cate in Quantitative Problem Solving; Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Certificate in Mathematics
in Context; WJEC Eduqas Level 3 Certificate in Mathematics for Work and Life; AQA Lev- el 3 Certificate in Mathematical Studies
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Report of Professor Sir Adri- an Smith’s review of post-16 mathematics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publi- cations/smith-review-of-post-16-maths- report-and-government-response
	•	Data collected from individual exam boards: Pearson http://qualifications.pearson.com/ content/demo/en/support/support-topics/ resultscertification/grade-statistics.html?Qual- ification-Family=mathematics-in-context, AQA http://www.aqa.org.uk/exams-administration/ results-days/results-statistics, OCR http://www. ocr.org.uk/ocr-for/exams-officers/stage-4-re- sults/results-statistics/results-statisticsarchive/
	•	BIS (2016), ‘Returns to Maths and English Learn- ing (at level 2 and below) in Further Education’, https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/ system/uploads/attachment_data/file/522300/ bis-16-180-maths-english-learning.pdf
	•	CIPD (2017), ‘From ‘inadequate’ to ‘out- standing’: making the UK’s skills system world class’, https://www.cipd.co.uk/about/ media/press/170419-uk-skills-crisis#
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Level 2 and 3 attainment in England: Attainment by age 19 in 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/government/up- loads/system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/603776/Tables_16_-_24_2017SFR.xlsx
	•	DfE (2016), ‘Evaluation of the maths teacher exchange: China and England’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/evaluation-of-the- maths-teacher-exchange-china-and-england
	•	Tech Nation 2017 Tech City (2017), ‘Digital tech jobs are being created twice as fast as non-digital jobs’, https://technation.techcityuk. com/digital-skills-jobs/jobs-salaries-data/
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘UK Digital Strategy 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publica- tions/uk-digital-strategy/uk-digital-strategy
	•	BEIS (2016), ‘Computer science degree ac- creditation: Shadbolt review’, https://www. gov.uk/government/publications/comput- er-science-degree-accreditation-and-grad- uate-employability-shadbolt-review
	•	The Royal Society (2017), ‘After the Reboot:
 computing education in UK schools’, https://roy- alsociety.org/~/media/policy/projects/comput- ing-education/computing-education-report.pdf
	•	Parliament (2017), ‘Higher Education: Disad- vantaged: Written question - 4520’, http:// www.parliament.uk/business/publications/ written-questions-answers-statements/writ- ten-question/Commons/2017-07-12/4520/
	•	ONS ( 2017), ‘Labour market status of dis- abled people’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/em- ploymentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatusofdisabledpeoplea08; ONS (2017), ‘Number of Women in Employ- ment’ (aged 16 and over, seasonally adjusted), https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandla- bourmarket/peopleinwork/employmentan- demployeetypes/timeseries/mgsb/lms;
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Good work: the Taylor review of modern working practices’, https://www.gov. uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/ attachment_data/file/627671/good-work-tay- lor-review-modern-working-practices-rg.pdf
	•	DfE (2017), ‘New levy to double annual invest- ment in home-grown skills’, https://www.gov. uk/government/news/new-levy-to-double- annual-investment-in-home-grown-skills
	•	BIS, DfE, DWP (2016), ‘Paul Maynard taskforce recommendations’, https://www.gov.uk/gov- ernment/publications/apprenticeships-improv- ing-access-for-people-with-learning-disabilities/ paul-maynard-taskforce-recommendations
	•	BEIS (2017) ‘Race in the workplace: The McGregor-Smith Review’ https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/race-in-the- workplace-the-mcgregor-smith-review
	•	‘McKinsey (2015), ‘Diversity matters’, https:// www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organ- ization/our-insights/why-diversity-matters ‘
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Employment rate (aged 16 to 64, seasonally adjusted)’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/ employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/timeseries/ lf24/lms; Olsen et al. (2010), ‘The Gender Pay Gap in the UK 1995–2007’; http://openaccess. city.ac.uk/15912/1/genderpaygap2010_olsen- etal.pdf; McKinsey (2015), ‘Diversity matters’, https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/ organization/our-insights/why-diversity-matters
	•	ONS ( 2017), ‘Labour market status of dis- abled people’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/em- ploymentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/



249



employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatusofdisabledpeoplea08
	•	OECD (2012), ‘Closing the Gender Gap, Act Now: United Kingdom, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development’, http://www. oecd.org/gender/Closing%20the%20Gen- der%20Gap%20-%20UK%20FINAL.pdf
	•	DFE (2017), ‘Evaluation of Early Implemen- tation of 30 Hours Free Childcare’, https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/629460/ Evaluation_of_early_implementa- tion_of_30_hours_free_childcare_.pdf
	•	DfE (2017), ‘Evaluation of Early Rollout of 30 Hours Free Childcare’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/642007/Evaluation_of_ear- ly_rollout_of_30-hours_free_childcare.pdf
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Labour Market Status by Eth- nic Group’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/em- ploymentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ labourmarketstatusbyethnicgroupa09
	•	Cabinet Office (2017), ‘Race Dispari- ty Audit’, https://www.gov.uk/govern-
ment/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/650723/RDAweb.pdf
	•	DWP and DH (2017), ‘Thriving at Work: a review of mental health and employers’, https://www. gov.uk/government/publications/thriving-at- work-a-review-of-mental-health-and-employers
	•	MAC (2017), ‘Call for evidence and briefing note: EEA-workers in the UK labour market’, https://www.gov.uk/government/consulta- tions/call-for-evidence-and-briefing-note- eea-workers-in-the-uk-labour-market
	•	HMT (2017), ‘Public Expenditure Statistical Analyses 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/gov- ernment/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/629926/PESA_2017_print. pdf; ONS (2017), ‘Input-output supply and use tables’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/econo- my/nationalaccounts/supplyandusetables/ datasets/inputoutputsupplyandusetables
	•	CMS (2016), ‘Infrastructure Index: Bridging the gap’,; https://cms.law/en/GBR/Publica- tion/Infrastructure-index-bridging-the-gap
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘UK Digital Strategy 2017’; https://www.gov.uk/government/publica- tions/uk-digital-strategy/uk-digital-strategy
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Provisional Greenhouse Gas Emis- sions Inventory Statistics 2016’, https://www.gov.
 uk/government/statistics/provisional-uk-green- house-gas-emissions-national-statistics-2016
	•	ONS (2016), ‘Quarterly National Accounts Statistical bulletins’, (Series ABMI. Season- ally adjusted chained volume measures), https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
	•	MoD (2016), ‘National Shipbuilding Strategy: an independent report’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/publications/uk-national-ship- building-strategy-an-independent-report
	•	DEFRA (2014), ‘Reducing the risks of flooding and coastal erosion: An investment plan, De- cember 2014’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/389789/fcerm-investment-plan-201412.pdf
	•	DfT (2017), ‘Transport Investment Strat- egy: Moving Britain Ahead’, https://www. gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/624990/ transport-investment-strategy-web.pdf
	•	DfT (2017), ‘Transport Investment Strat- egy: Moving Britain Ahead’, https://www. gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/624990/ transport-investment-strategy-web.pdf
	•	DfT (2017), ‘Transport Investment Strat- egy: Moving Britain Ahead’, https://www. gov.uk/government/uploads/system/ uploads/attachment_data/file/624990/ transport-investment-strategy-web.pdf
	•	Frost & Sullivan (2017), ‘UK Space Launch Services Market - A review of market po- tential and UK industry competitiveness;
	•	https://www.i3p.org.uk
	•	High Speed Two (HS2) Limited (2016), ‘How HS2 will generate growth: ‘Changing Britain: HS2 Taking Root’, http://www.wiganworks. com/Docs/Economic/Changing-Brit-
ain-HS2-Taking-Root.pdf
	•	High Speed Two (HS2) Limited (2016), ‘How HS2 will generate growth: ‘Chang- ing Britain: HS2 Taking Root’, http:// www.wiganworks.com/Docs/Economic/ Changing-Britain-HS2-Taking-Root.pdf
	•	Cost of Energy: Independent Review (2017) https://www.gov.uk/government/publica- tions/cost-of-energy-independent-review
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘The Clean Growth Strate- gy (2017)’, https://www.gov.uk/govern- ment/publications/clean-growth-strate- gyThe Clean Growth Strategy (2017)



250



	•	Oil and Gas UK (2017) , ‘Oil and Gas UK Economic Report 2017’,http://oilandgasuk. co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/Eco- nomic-Report-2017-Oil-Gas-UK.pdf
	•	ONS (2015), ‘UK trade data’, https://www.ons. gov.uk/economy/nationalaccounts/balanceof- payments/bulletins/uktrade/previousReleases
	•	Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013), ‘Towards the Circular Economy’, www.ellenmacarthur- foundation.org/business/reports/ce2012
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘UK Digital Strategy 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publica- tions/uk-digital-strategy/uk-digital-strategy
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘Guidance - Broad-  band Delivery UK’, https://www.gov. uk/guidance/broadband-delivery-uk#- superfast-broadband-programme
	•	Think Broadband (2017), ‘UK Superfast and Fibre Coverage’ https://labs.thinkbroadband. com/local/; Ofcom (2016), ‘Connected Nations 2016’,https://www.ofcom.org.uk/__data/assets/ pdf_file/0035/95876/CN-Report-2016.pdf
	•	Deloitte (2017) ‘Assessing the value of TfL’s open data and digital partnerships’, http://content. tfl.gov.uk/deloitte-report-tfl-open-data.pdf
	•	PWC (2017), ‘How will artificial intelligence affect the UK economy?’, http://www.pwc.co.uk/servic- es/economics-policy/insights/the-impact-of-ar- tificial-intelligence-on-the-uk-economy.html
	•	https://www.gov.uk/government/ news/new-clean-energy-projects- set-to-power-36-million-homes
	•	World Bank (2018). ‘Ease of Doing Business Index 2018’. http://www.doingbusiness. org/~/media/WBG/DoingBusiness/Docu- ments/Profiles/Regional/DB2018/EU.pdf
	•	Financial Times (2017), ‘The FT 1000: The complete list of Europe’s fastest-growing com- panies’, https://ig.ft.com/ft-1000/?mhq5j=e5
	•	World Bank (2018). ‘Ease of Doing Business Index 2018’. http://www.doingbusiness. org/~/media/WBG/DoingBusiness/Docu- ments/Profiles/Regional/DB2018/EU.pdf
	•	BEIS analysis of 2016 Banksearch Data
	•	Financial Times (2018). ‘1000 Europe’s Fastest Growing Companies.’ https://ig.ft.com/ft-1000/
	•	EY (2017). ‘UK Attractiveness Survey 2017: Time to act.’ http://www.ey.com/Publication/ vwLUAssets/2017-UK-Attractiveness-Survey/$- FILE/EY-UK-Attractiveness-Survey-2017.pdf
	•	 The Global Innovation Index (2017). ‘The Global Innovation Index 2017: Innovating Feeding the World.’ https://www.globa- linnovationindex.org/gii-2017-report#
	•	HMT (2017). ‘Financing growth in innovative firms: consultation.’ https://www.gov.uk/ government/uploads/system/uploads/attach- ment_data/file/642456/financing_growth_ in_innovative_firms_consultation_web.pdf
	•	British Business Bank (2017). ‘Small Busi- ness Equity Tracker Report 2017.’ https:// british-business-bank.co.uk/wp-content/ uploads/2017/07/239-Small-Business-Eq- uity-Tracker-Report_2017WEB.pdf
	•	Haldane, A (2017), ‘Productivity puzzles’ Speech given at the London School of Economics, 20 March. www.bankofengland.co.uk/publications/ Documents/speeches/2017/speech968.pdf
	•	ONS (2017) ‘Understanding firms in the bottom 10% of the labour productivity distribution
in Great Britain.’ https://www.ons.gov.uk/ economy/economicoutputandproductivity/ productivitymeasures/articles/understand- ingfirmsinthebottom10ofthelabourproductiv- itydistributioningreatbritain/jantomar2017
	•	Centre for Economic Performance (2007) ‘Management Practice & Productivity: Why they matter’ http://cep.lse.ac.uk/management/ Management_Practice_and_Productivity.pdf
	•	Bloom, Van Reenen(2016), ‘Measuring and ex- plaining management practices across firms and countries’, http://www.nber.org/papers/w12216
	•	ONS (2017) ‘An international comparison of gross fixed capital formation.’ https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproduct- gdp/articles/aninternationalcomparisonof- grossfixedcapitalformation/2017-11-02.
	•	BEIS (2016), ‘Business population estimates 2016’, https://www.gov.uk/government/sta- tistics/business-population-estimates-2016
	•	HM Treasury (2015), ’Fixing the founda- tion: creating a more prosperous nation’, https://www.gov.uk/government/up- loads/system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/443898/Productivity_Plan_web.pdf
	•	ONS (2017), ‘National Accounts Aggregates’ https://www.ons.gov.uk/file?uri=/economy/ grossdomesticproductgdp/compendium/unit- edkingdomnationalaccountsthebluebook/2017/ uknationalaccountsthebluebook2017/bbchap- ter01nationalaccountsataglancev3.xls
	•	BIS (2011), ‘International Trade and Investment



251



- the Economic Rationale for Government Support’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/32106/11-805-international-trade-in- vestment-rationale-for-support.pdf
	•	World Bank, (2017). ‘Doing Business 2018: Reforming to Create Jobs.’ http://www.doing- business.org/~/media/WBG/DoingBusiness/ Documents/Profiles/Regional/DB2018/EU.pdf
	•	BEIS (2017) ‘Good Work: The Taylor Review of Modern Working Practices’. https://www.
gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/ attachment_data/file/627671/good-work-tay- lor-review-modern-working-practices-rg.pdf
	•	HMT (2017). ‘Public Expenditure.’ https:// www.gov.uk/government/uploads/ system/uploads/attachment_data/ file/629926/PESA_2017_print.pdf
	•	ONS (2016), ‘UK National Accounts, The Blue Book: 2016’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/releas- es/uknationalaccountsthebluebook2016
	•	ONS (2017) ,‘UK Trade in goods by classifica- tion of product by activity time series dataset’ https://www.ons.gov.uk/businessindustry- andtrade/internationaltrade/datasets/uktra- deingoodsbyclassificationofproductbyactivity
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Business enterprise research and development, UK: 2016’ https://www. ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpub- licsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/bulletins/businessent- erpriseresearchanddevelopment/2016
	•	European Commission (2017), ‘The 2016 EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard’, http:// iri.jrc.ec.europa.eu/scoreboard16.html
	•	BEIS (2016), ‘New aerospace technologies to get £365 million funding’, https://www.gov. uk/government/news/new-aerospace-tech- nologies-to-get-365-million-funding
	•	OLS (2016), ‘Strength and Opportunity  2016 - The landscape of the medical tech- nology and biopharmaceutical sectors in the UK’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/635714/strength-and-opportunity-2016-bi- oscience-technology-accessible-revised.pdf
	•	Known as Merck and Co Inc. in the US and Canada
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Annual Business Survey, UK non-financial business economy: 2016 pro- visional results’, (Figures include construc- tion contracting, construction services and
 construction products), https://www.ons. gov.uk/businessindustryandtrade/business/ businessservices/bulletins/uknonfinancial- businesseconomy/2016provisionalresults
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Annual Business Survey, UK non-financial business economy: 2016 pro- visional results’, (Figures include construc- tion contracting, construction services and construction products), https://www.ons. gov.uk/businessindustryandtrade/business/ businessservices/bulletins/uknonfinancial- businesseconomy/2016provisionalresults
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Annual Business Survey, UK non-financial business economy: 2016 pro- visional results’, (Contracting defined as SIC 41, 42 and 43 and Self-employed con-
struction contractors), https://www.ons.gov. uk/businessindustryandtrade/business/ businessservices/bulletins/uknonfinancial- businesseconomy/2016provisionalresults
	•	PWC (2017), ‘How will artificial intelligence affect the UK economy?’, http://www.pwc.co.uk/servic- es/economics-policy/insights/the-impact-of-ar- tificial-intelligence-on-the-uk-economy.html
	•	Eurostat (2017), ‘Structural Business Sta- tistics’, http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/ structural-business-statistics/data/database
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Employee jobs’, ‘Self-employed jobs’, ‘Employment multipliers’, https://www.ons. gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peoplein- work/employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/ employeejobsbyindustryjobs03; https://www. ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/ peopleinwork/employmentandemployeetypes/ datasets/selfemploymentjobsbyindustry- jobs04; https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/ nationalaccounts/supplyandusetables/ adhocs/007234provisionalestimatesofty- peiukemploymentmultipliersandeffectsby- su114industrygroupandsectormarketgov- ernmentnpishreferenceyear2013
	•	SMMT (2017), ‘Automotive Sustainability Report’, https://www.smmt.co.uk/indus- try-topics/sustainability/uk-supply-chain/
	•	DCMS (2015), ‘Sectors Economic Estimates’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/ dcms-sectors-economic-estimates-2016
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘Independent Review of the Creative Industries’, https://www. gov.uk/government/news/bazalgette-re- view-sets-recommendations-for-contin- ued-growth-of-uks-creative-industries



252



	•	ONS (2017), ‘GDP Low Level Aggregates’, https:// www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticpro- ductgdp/datasets/ukgdpolowlevelaggregates
	•	ONS (2017), ‘UK Trade in Goods by Classification of Product by Activity and UK Trade’, https:// www.ons.gov.uk/economy/nationalaccounts/ balanceofpayments/datasets/publicationta- blesuktradecpa08; https://www.ons.gov.uk/ economy/nationalaccounts/balanceofpay- ments/datasets/publicationtablesuktrade
205.ONS (2017), ‘BERD, UK 2016’, https://www.
ons.gov.uk/economy/governmentpub- licsectorandtaxes/researchanddevelop- mentexpenditure/datasets/ukbusines- senterpriseresearchanddevelopment
	•	ONS (2017), ‘Labour Productivity’, https:// www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabour- market/peopleinwork/labourproductivity/ datasets/labourproductivitytables110andr1
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Made Smarter Review’, https://www.gov.uk/government/pub- lications/made-smarter-review
	•	Nuclear Skills Strategy Group (2017), ‘Nuclear Workforce Assessment 2017’, http://www.cogentskills.com/me- dia/76523/nwa2017_public.pdf
	•	Martin et al. (2015), ‘Spatially rebalancing the UK economy: The need for a new policy model’, http://www.regionalstudies.org/up- loads/documents/SRTUKE_v16_PRINT.pdf
	•	Magnani M. (2014), ‘Creating Economic Growth. Lessons for Europe’, http://www. palgrave.com/us/book/9781137427045
	•	Martin et al. (2015), ‘Spatially rebalancing the UK economy: The need for a new policy model’, http://www.regionalstudies.org/up- loads/documents/SRTUKE_v16_PRINT.pdf
	•	Martin et al. (2015), ‘Spatially rebalancing the UK economy: The need for a new policy model’, http://www.regionalstudies.org/up- loads/documents/SRTUKE_v16_PRINT.pdf
	•	NAO (2016), ‘Local Enterprise Part- nerships’, https://www.nao.org.uk/ wp-content/uploads/2016/03/Lo- cal-Enterprise-Partnerships.pdf
	•	ONS (2017), ‘UK Non-Financial Business Economy (Annual Business Survey): Sections A-S’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/businessin- dustryandtrade/business/businessservices/ datasets/uknonfinancialbusinessecono- myannualbusinesssurveysectionsas
	•	 Centre for Cities, McKinsey & Co. (2014), ‘Industrial Revolutions: Capturing the Growth Potential’, http://www.centre- forcities.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/ FINAL_Centre-for-cities-report2014.pdf
	•	CBI (2016), ‘Unlocking regional growth’, http://www.cbi.org.uk/index.cfm/_api/ render/file/?method=inline&fileID=9AF06 398-223D-4214-B96F1AD8A2FE4CC8
	•	DfE, ‘FE data library apprenticeships’ https:// www.gov.uk/government/statistical-data-sets/ fe-data-library-apprenticeships#history
	•	Ofsted (2017), ‘Maintained schools and acad- emies inspections and outcomes as at 31 March 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ statistics/maintained-schools-and-academies- inspections-and-outcomes-as-at-31-march-2017
	•	Ofsted (2017), ‘Maintained schools and acad- emies inspections and outcomes as at 31 March 2017’, https://www.gov.uk/government/ statistics/maintained-schools-and-academies- inspections-and-outcomes-as-at-31-march-2017
	•	National Infrastructure Commission (2017), ‘Cambridge – Milton Keynes – Oxford corri- dor: Interim Report’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/uploads/system/uploads/at- tachment_data/file/569867/Cambridge-Mil- ton_Keynes-Oxford_interim_report.pdf
	•	National Infrastructure Commission (2017), ‘Cambridge – Milton Keynes – Oxford corri- dor: Interim Report’, https://www.gov.uk/ government/uploads/system/uploads/at- tachment_data/file/569867/Cambridge-Mil- ton_Keynes-Oxford_interim_report.pdf
	•	BEIS (2017), ‘Science and innovation audits: second reports published’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/science-and-in- novation-audits-second-reports-published
	•	DCMS (2017), ‘The role of culture, sport and heritage in place shaping’, https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/the-role-of-cul- ture-sport-and-heritage-in-place-shaping




253


Image references



Cover Department for International Trade Pg16	The University of Liverpool
Pg22	Jessica Ennis, Mo Farah and Greg Rutherford at the London 2012 Olympic and Paralym- pic Games, image credit: London 2012
Pg24	Flight path map, image credit: De- partment for International Trade
Pg34 A scientist at the Compound Semicon- ductor Applications Catapult, Cardiff
Pg36	SecondHands, a research project led by Ocado Technology, image credit: Ocado
Pg44 EDF Energy Renewables proposed Blyth Offshore Demonstrator wind farm off the North East of England coast, image credit: EDF
Pg49 Driverless car, image credit: The Centre for Connected & Autonomous Vehicles
Pg64 Sir Isaac Newton’s reflecting tele- scope. Image credit: The Board of Trustees of the Science Museum.
George Stephenson’s Rocket. Image credit: The Board of Trustees of the Science Museum.
Joseph Swan’s lamp. Image credit: The Board of Trustees of the Science Museum.
Sir Godfrey Hounsfield’s CT scan- ner. Image credit: The Board of Trus- tees of the Science Museum.
Pg71	Nquiringminds Trusted Data Exchange – used by Belfast City Council, im-
age credit: nquiringminds
Pg78	Airbus Defence & Space / Mars Rover / Meteron, image credit: UK Space Agency
Pg83 A technician from Limpet Technology trialling a new access system for offshore wind turbines on the Offshore Renewa- ble Energy Catapult’s 7MW Levenmouth Demonstration Turbine. Image credit: Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
Pg84 The 42m high iconic Rocket Tower at the National Space Centre in Leicester, image credit: The National Space Centre, Leicester
Pg88 The first major project of the UK-US Sci- ence and Technology Agreement is UK investment in the Long Baseline Neu- trino Facility (LBNF) and Deep Under- ground Neutrino Experiment (DUNE)
Pg90 Square Kilometre Array, Jodrell Bank, Cheshire
Pg96 An engineer at The Advanced Pro- pulsion Centre, Coventry, image cred- it: Advanced Propulsion Centre
 Pg92-93 Future Engineers Hub at the Na- tional Railway, York, image cred- it: National Railway Museum
Pg106   Secondary school maths pupils, image credit: National Centre for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics (NCETM)
Pg108   New Model in Technology & Engineer- ing, Hereford, image credit: New Mod- el in Technology & Engineering
Pg112	Students at a maths hub, image cred- it: National Centre for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics (NCETM)
Pg120   A technician operating machinery, image credit: Department for Work and Pensions
Pg136 Heathrow Airport, image cred- it: Heathrow Airports Ltd
Pg139 High Speed 2, image credit: HS2 Ltd Pg147 An engineer working on a wind turbine Pg154   Digital rail technology, Im-
age credit: Digital Railway Pg162-163
Bolton-based manufacturer Pure Fabs, image credit: Business Growth Hub
Savile Row, bespoke tailors Maurice Sed- well, image credit: The GREAT Campaign
Cheadle-based business The Urban Bota- nist, image credit: Business Growth Hub
Pg186   Port of Felixstowe
Pg189   Whisky bottling, image cred- it: Scotch Whisky Association
Pg192 Trent XWB-97 production line in Der- by, image credit Rolls-Royce plc
Pg196 A Network Rail engineer, image credit: Unilite Pg200 Nissan Juke production line, Sunder-
land, image credit: Nissan Europe
Pg212 Citymapper Smartbus, image credit: Gil- bert Wedam (Citymapper Limited)
Pg220 Leeds
Pg224 Ceramics manufacturing, Stoke on Trent, image credit: British Ceramic Confederation
Pg226 Alexandra Docks, Grimsby, image cred- it: Invest North East Lincolnshire
Pg228 East Devon
Pg235 Image credit: Norwich Research Park Pg236 Titanic Belfast
Pg238 image credit: The Oil and Gas Tech- nology Centre Aberdeen
Pg239 Tata Steel





254






















































255

Industrial Strategy White Paper














































256
































© Crown copyright 2017
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk. Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.

This publication is available from: www.gov.uk/beis
Contact us if you have any enquiries about this publication, including requests for alternative formats, at: enquiries@beis.gov.uk
